Vongfong Departs Japan Following Damaging Wind and Rain
Browse for your location
Note: Select a region before finding a country.
Vongfong Departs Japan Following Damaging Wind and Rain
By Eric Leister, Meteorologist
October 14, 2014; 7:50 PM ET
Only a week after Japan was slammed by Typhoon Phanfone, Vongfong brought another round of torrential rainfall and locally damaging winds.
Vongfong, meaning "the wasp" in Cantonese, turned northeastward and moved across Kyushu and Shikoku on Monday.
Landfall occurred on Kyushu near Kagoshima around 9:15 a.m. on Monday, local time, as the storm began to accelerate northeastward.
This northeastward track continued on Monday night and Tuesday as the cyclone brought torrential rain and locally damaging winds to Honshu and parts of Hokkaido.
Vongfong has since moved back into the Western Pacific Ocean and continues to weaken with no further impacts to land expected.
Prior to reaching Mainland Japan, Vongfong blasted through the Ryukyu Islands of southern Japan over the weekend.
Wind speeds peaked at 143 kph (89 mph) at the Kadena Air Base in Okinawa.
Nearby, about 500 mm (20 inches) fell at Kunigami on Saturday.
Despite weakening while crossing Japan, wind gusts over 92 kph (57 mph) were reported in Tokyo along with torrential downpours that produced 50-100 mm (2-4 inches) of rainfall.
Widespread rainfall of 50-100 mm (2-4 inches) was reported across Kyushu, Shikoku, Honshu and eastern Hokkaido through Tuesday evening, local time.
In one of the hardest hit areas, nearly 300 mm (12 inches) of rain fell in only 12 hours in Sumoto, Japan, on Monday.
Vongfong was classified as a super typhoon during the middle of last week as it moved through an area of low wind shear and very warm ocean temperatures but has since lost that title.
The tropical system had reached the equivalent strength of a Category 5 hurricane, featuring wind speeds greater than 257 kph (160 mph).
"Vongfong became the strongest tropical cyclone we've had all year anywhere on Earth," AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Jim Andrews said.
The strength of Vongfong earlier surpassed that of Super Typhoon Genevieve which, at its most powerful, had sustained winds of 257 kph (160 mph) in the West Pacific.
RELATED:How are Cyclones Named in the Western PacificDeadly Phanfone Departs JapanJapan Interactive Radar
The Associated Press reported that at least 75 people have been injured and one killed in Japan as the cyclone brought torrential rain and locally damaging winds to the region.
As the storm moved across Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co. (TEPCO) took precautions to prevent problems at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station.
To prepare for the storm, TEPCO increased water transfer capacity and water storage capacity to prevent overflow of the accumulated water in the dikes by increasing the dikes' height and, if necessary, transferring the rain water between the dikes or to different storage tanks to level the rain water, the utility said on its Facebook page.
AccuWeather.com Meteorologists Meghan Mussoline, Courtney Spamer and Jordan Root and Staff Writer Mark Leberfinger contributed content to this story.
Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines.
Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.
Watch 'AccuWeather LIVE' Now: Heavy Rain to Cause Localized Flooding in Houston, Austin
November 4, 2014; 12:00 PM ET
Watch a new edition of AccuWeather LIVE every weekday at 12 p.m. EDT.
Nuri to Pass East of Japan, Tokyo at Risk for Heavy Rain
November 4, 2014; 11:03 AM ET
Even though the center of Typhoon Nuri will pass east of Japan, the Greater Tokyo Area is at risk for heavy rainfall.
MAP: Which States Have the Most Flu Cases So Far?
November 4, 2014; 10:04 AM ET
Though not yet into the icy grip of the cold season, the flu has already taken hold of the nation's focus.
VIDEO: Emerald Fireball Leaps Across Sky From Midwest to Southeast
November 4, 2014; 10:01 AM ET
Skies across Chicago and as far south as Georgia were aglow Monday night as an emerald-tinted fireball was spotted shortly after 6:20 p.m. EST.
Tropical Disturbance to Spread Rain From Puerto Rico to Bermuda
November 4, 2014; 9:17 AM ET
AccuWeather.com meteorologists are monitoring an area of disturbed weather located north of Puerto Rico.
Flooding Threat for France, Italy and Western Balkans
November 4, 2014; 8:45 AM ET
Heavy rain this week will bring an elevated flood risk from southeast France into the western Balkan Peninsula.
Daily U.S. Extremes past 24 hours         Extreme Location     High N/A    Low N/A    Precip N/A
This Day In Weather History   Colorado (1972)                Snowstorm in Colorado: Three-foot snow drifts on
Interstate Route 25 about 50 miles south of
Minneapolis, MN (1991)                Minus 3 degrees -- earliest ever below-zero
Raleigh Durham, NC (2000)                39 day rainless streak snapped - longest dry
Rough Weather    Today's Worst Weather World Hot Spot
Free Weather For Your Site
AccuWeather for Windows Phone
© 2014 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
Terms of usage under which this service is provided
Privacy Statement | Ad Choices
Dozens injured as Typhoon Vongfong batters southwestern Japan | CTV News
Skip to Main Content
HOT TOPICS Teen pimp
CTV News Channel Schedule
CTV National News Team
CTV News Digital Team
Dozens injured as Typhoon Vongfong batters southwestern Japan
Published Saturday, October 11, 2014 10:30PM EDT
Last Updated Saturday, October 11, 2014 10:47PM EDT
TOKYO -- A powerful typhoon poured heavy rains over Japan's southern island of Okinawa and was aiming at the next island of Kyushu on Sunday, becoming the second severe storm to hit in a week.
At least 28 people have been reported injured in Kyushu and Okinawa, where authorities told 150,000 people to evacuate.
Typhoon Vongfong, packing winds of up to 180 kilometres per hour, has been downgraded from a "super-typhoon" and was on course to reach Kyushu by Monday.
Authorities issued landslide warnings and strong winds knocked out power lines, temporarily halting bullet train service for several hours on Kyushu.
Last week's typhoon killed three U.S. airmen who were washed out at sea in Okinawa, home to about half of the roughly 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan.
The U.S. military instructed service personnel and their families to remain indoors Sunday until strong winds and rain subsided, and said crews were out to assess damage.
People make their way through strong wind caused by approaching typhoon Vongfong in Naha, Okinawa, southern Japan, Saturday, Oct. 11, 2014.
Woman's abduction captured on camera
CTV Kitchener: Million-dollar mystery
McDonald's employee entertains at the drive-thru
Love is in the air!
Couple gets engaged on flight
Canada AM: Robotic penguin spy
CTV National News: Taking a shot at a new home
CTV Vancouver: Photo of curious grizzly goes viral
CTV News Channel: New tool tracks extremism
CTV Atlantic: Pin found inside Halloween treat
CTV Winnipeg: Sewing pin, razor blade in candy
CTV Ottawa: 'That second means everything'
CTV Ottawa: Moms tout benefits of eating placenta
Write your comment here :
Enter your name :
Enter your email :
*Will not be shown on the website
Type in the characters you see in the picture below.
If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.
We welcome your comments.
Bell Media reviews every comment submitted, and reserves the right to approve comments and edit for brevity and clarity.
Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.
Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.
Preference is given to commenters who use real names.
Stay on topic and be concise.
What not to do:
We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks.
We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading.
We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed.
If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.
We will not publish comments that link to outside websites.
Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts.
You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
More Stories from World
Oscar Pistorius verdict, sentence appealed by prosecutors
Body found after report of boy tossed off Oregon bridge
Grisly double murder shocks Hong Kong; British suspect appears in court
Mudslide in Sri Lanka kills at least 10, 28 missing
Paris 2024 Olympics bid may use crowdfunding
Vatican's top bioethics official condemns assisted suicide as 'reprehensible'
CTV News Video Network
Caught on cam: Woman abducted on the street in Philadelphia
Adorable penguin rover uses disguise to get in close
Love is in the air!
Man pops the question during flight
Million-dollar mystery: Winning ticket still unclaimed
Rain wallop wreaks havoc around metro Vancouver
Are you Elizabeth Gallagher?
Toronto man seeks Canadian for free trip
Ottawa teen pimp ringleader sentenced as adult for 'despicable' crimes
'All my fans make me sick': Online video shows Ghomeshi singing about fans
Canadian airstrikes hit ISIS construction equipment in Iraq
Scotiabank to cut 1,500 jobs worldwide, two-thirds in Canada
Elizabeth Gallaghers come forward after Toronto man offers free trip
Mexican mayor, wife detained in case of 43 missing students
Air force commander links Canada's airstrikes to soldier's death
Hadfield's cover of 'Space Oddity' back on YouTube
Ontario church website hacked with ISIS message
Connect with CTV News
You will need to enable JavaScript in order to use the Widget.
Vancouver's North Shore cleaning up after flooding overnight
Police seek reports of suspicious Halloween candy after needle, blade found
Canadian airstrikes hit ISIS construction equipment in Iraq
Oscar Pistorius verdict, sentence appealed by prosecutors
Body found after report of boy tossed off Oregon bridge
Grisly double murder shocks Hong Kong; British suspect appears in court
Prince rumoured to be performing in surprise show in Toronto
Angelina Jolie 'open' to running for political office
Nick Jonas aims for solo stardom with new album, physical transformation
Open access Canadian medical journal closes after seven years
Four minutes of fun helps kids focus: study
Ebola outbreak: Thousands in Sierra Leone violating quarantine to find food
Hollande hails 'unique' relationship between France and Quebec
U.S. midterm elections: Republicans optimistic, Democrats hope for last-minute boost
Next steps for federal refugee health care to be unveiled
Baby hippo born at L.A. zoo to mom on birth control
'God particle' researcher to be first female director general of CERN
Questions loom about space tourism as Virgin Galactic crash investigation continues
TSX tumbles as oil prices hit 4-year lows
Firm denies forcing man from job over Playgirl lumberjack spread
JPMorgan reveals criminal investigation involving foreign exchange business
A-Rod paid cousin $1M to keep quiet on steroid use: prosecutors
NBA Scores: Nets storm past the Thunder 116-85
Beijing confident about 2022 Winter Olympics bid despite lack of snow
Ford issues 5 recalls to fix gas leaks, air bag sensors
Honda investigated for failing to submit reports of deaths, injuries
Electric racing car revs to world record in Switzerland
Life lessons from a tidiness expert: Discard items that don't 'spark joy'
Syria's better-offs seek fun as war grinds on
Toronto's Cookbook Store to be reincarnated as 'cookbook department'
Red Pineapple Carpaccio and Cherry and Raspberry Trifle Pie
Raspberry and Pomegranate Pastry
Ontario hospital launches lawsuit against owners of gene patent
Widespread flooding in North Vancouver
This Week in Space: Disasters strike, spotting Jupiter's eye
Funeral for Warrant Officer Patrice Vincent
Bell Media Press Room
CTV Northern Ontario News
CTV News on Mobile
Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy© 2014  All rights reserved.Bell Media Television
Typhoon Vongfong batters Japan, injures 28 - World - CBC News
Skip to main content
Skip to CBC accessibility page
Major StoriesIn The News
Have you faced racism?
Typhoon Vongfong batters Japan, injures 28
Japan hit by 2nd typhoon in less than a week
Posted: Oct 11, 2014 6:59 AM ET
Last Updated: Oct 11, 2014 10:39 PM ET
The Japanese government has ordered 150,000 to evacuate their homes as Typhoon Vongfong slams the southwest regions of the country.
Inside the eye of a cyclone
A powerful typhoon has poured heavy rains over Japan's southern island of Okinawa and veered northeastward toward the main island of Kyushu, becoming the second severe storm to hit in a week.
The power and fury of tropical storms
Hurricanes and typhoons: inside the eye of a cyclone
At least 28 people have been reported injured in Kyushu and Okinawa, and 150,000 people have been told to evacuate.
Typhoon Vongfong has sparked mudslide warnings and halted bullet train service Saturday.
(Kyodo News/Associated Press)Typhoon Vongfong, packing winds of up to 178 km/h, has been downgraded from a "super-typhoon" and is on course to reach Kyushu by Monday.
Warnings have been issued about mudslides and strong winds knocked out power lines, halting bullet train service.
Last week's typhoon killed three U.S. airmen who were washed out at sea in Okinawa.
Okinawa is home to about half of the roughly 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan.
© The Associated Press, 2014
Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines.
Comments are welcome while open.
We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted.
By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever.
Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines.
Stay Connected with CBC News
Brittany Maynard takes her life in Oregon after public right-to-die debate
Nik Wallenda completes 2 tightrope walks between Chicago skyscrapers
Fredrik Neij, Pirate Bay co-founder, arrested in Thailand
Iranian-British woman sentenced to 1 year in prison, lawyer says
Former Iguala, Mexico, mayor captured in case of 43 missing students
World Trade Center reopens for business, 13 years after 9/11
Dachau's infamous Nazi concentration camp sign stolen
Virgin Galactic SpaceShipTwo crash: Police confirm identities of pilots
Spanish shepherds, sheep protest in Madrid streets
John Spinello, creator of Operation board game who couldn't afford surgery, gets online help
Canada's destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context.
The Exchange with Amanda Lang
The day's biggest business stories.
Weeknights at 7 p.m.
ET on CBC News Network
Ottawa teen prostitution ringleader gets 6½-year adult sentence
Canadian dollar sinks below 88 cents as Saudis cut oil to $77 a barrel
From joints to GMOs: Noteworthy ballot measures in U.S. midterm elections
Toronto man seeks woman with ex's name for free trip around the world
Jian Ghomeshi investigation continues as Q executive producer takes time off
Scotiabank to cut 1,500 jobs amid restructuring charges
Alison Redford could face criminal charges, review finds
ISIS mission: RCAF commander's tweet hints at revenge
Carlesha Freeland-Gaither, 22, abducted off Philadelphia street, still missing
D-Day veteran's death leads to war with Direct Energy
Date-rape drugs may not be as prevalent as you think
Visa, MasterCard agree to hold interchange fees at 1.5% for 5 years
Brock University students in blackface win Halloween contest
Airline fuel surcharges may decrease, but will the ticket price?
Election day in America: 7 things to watch in midterms
CBC: Get the Facts
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Image Research Library & Still Photos
Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts
Copyright © CBC 2014
