S: Vongfong Departs Japan Following Damaging Wind and Rain
S: Vongfong Departs Japan Following Damaging Wind and Rain
S: Browse for your location
S: Note: Select a region before finding a country.
S: Vongfong Departs Japan Following Damaging Wind and Rain
S: By Eric Leister, Meteorologist
S: October 14, 2014; 7:50 PM ET
S: Only a week after Japan was slammed by Typhoon Phanfone, Vongfong brought another round of torrential rainfall and locally damaging winds.
S: Vongfong, meaning "the wasp" in Cantonese, turned northeastward and moved across Kyushu and Shikoku on Monday.
S: Landfall occurred on Kyushu near Kagoshima around 9:15 a.m. on Monday, local time, as the storm began to accelerate northeastward.
S: This northeastward track continued on Monday night and Tuesday as the cyclone brought torrential rain and locally damaging winds to Honshu and parts of Hokkaido.
S: Vongfong has since moved back into the Western Pacific Ocean and continues to weaken with no further impacts to land expected.
S: Prior to reaching Mainland Japan, Vongfong blasted through the Ryukyu Islands of southern Japan over the weekend.
S: Wind speeds peaked at 143 kph (89 mph) at the Kadena Air Base in Okinawa.
S: Nearby, about 500 mm (20 inches) fell at Kunigami on Saturday.
S: Despite weakening while crossing Japan, wind gusts over 92 kph (57 mph) were reported in Tokyo along with torrential downpours that produced 50-100 mm (2-4 inches) of rainfall.
S: Widespread rainfall of 50-100 mm (2-4 inches) was reported across Kyushu, Shikoku, Honshu and eastern Hokkaido through Tuesday evening, local time.
S: In one of the hardest hit areas, nearly 300 mm (12 inches) of rain fell in only 12 hours in Sumoto, Japan, on Monday.
S: Vongfong was classified as a super typhoon during the middle of last week as it moved through an area of low wind shear and very warm ocean temperatures but has since lost that title.
S: The tropical system had reached the equivalent strength of a Category 5 hurricane, featuring wind speeds greater than 257 kph (160 mph).
S: "Vongfong became the strongest tropical cyclone we've had all year anywhere on Earth," AccuWeather.com Meteorologist Jim Andrews said.
S: The strength of Vongfong earlier surpassed that of Super Typhoon Genevieve which, at its most powerful, had sustained winds of 257 kph (160 mph) in the West Pacific.
S: RELATED:How are Cyclones Named in the Western PacificDeadly Phanfone Departs JapanJapan Interactive Radar
S: The Associated Press reported that at least 75 people have been injured and one killed in Japan as the cyclone brought torrential rain and locally damaging winds to the region.
S: As the storm moved across Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co. (TEPCO) took precautions to prevent problems at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station.
S: To prepare for the storm, TEPCO increased water transfer capacity and water storage capacity to prevent overflow of the accumulated water in the dikes by increasing the dikes' height and, if necessary, transferring the rain water between the dikes or to different storage tanks to level the rain water, the utility said on its Facebook page.
S: AccuWeather.com Meteorologists Meghan Mussoline, Courtney Spamer and Jordan Root and Staff Writer Mark Leberfinger contributed content to this story.
S: Comments left here should adhere to the AccuWeather.com Community Guidelines.
S: Profanity, personal attacks, and spam will not be tolerated.
S: New Tropical Threat to Mexico Taking Shape
S: October 29, 2014; 1:07 PM ET
S: The next tropical system and threat to Mexico is taking shape in the eastern Pacific Ocean.
S: Pittsburgh: Quick Blast of Winter to Take Aim This Weekend
S: October 29, 2014; 1:05 PM ET
S: A taste of winter is on tap this weekend for Pittsburgh.
S: Halloween Forecast: Snow, Cold to Blast East; Rain to Soak West Coast
S: October 29, 2014; 1:03 PM ET
S: Bone-chilling air, rain and even some snow will impact the Great Lakes and Northeast this Halloween, while another storm hits the Northwest and warmth prevails in the Southwest.
S: Election Day Forecast: Rain May Factor Into Turnout in Central US
S: October 29, 2014; 1:00 PM ET
S: While rain could deter voter turnout on Election Day in part of the Central states and the Northwest, dry weather is in store in the East and the balance of the West.
S: Cold, Windy Conditions in Store for New York City Marathon
S: October 29, 2014; 12:57 PM ET
S: The 44th running of the New York City Marathon will get underway early Sunday morning with cold and  blustery conditions.
S: Officials Stockpile Snow Removal Supplies Ahead of Winter
S: October 29, 2014; 12:55 PM ET
S: Following last year's harsh winter season, which shattered snowfall, temperature and maintenance expenditure records across the country, transportation departments have been amassing supplies in preparation of winter's icy return.
S: Daily U.S. Extremes past 24 hours       ?? Extreme Location     High N/A    Low N/A    Precip N/A
S: This Day In Weather History   Los Angeles (1964)
                Record heat and smog; 90 degrees+ from
S: Texas/NM (1976)
                Heavy early season snowstorm (28th-29th)
S: brought a general 2-4 inches to eastern
S: New Mexico and West Texas.
S: Phoenix, AZ (1987)
                Severe thunderstorms: 86-mph wind gusts,
S: baseball-sized hail, one inch of rain in
S: Result was $2.5 million damage.
S: Rough Weather    Today's Worst Weather World Hot Spot
S: Free Weather For Your Site
S: AccuWeather for Windows Phone
S: ?? 2014 AccuWeather, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
S: AccuWeather.com is a registered trademark of AccuWeather, Inc.
S: Terms of usage under which this service is provided
S: Privacy Statement | Ad Choices
S: Dozens injured as Typhoon Vongfong batters southwestern Japan | CTV News
S: Dozens injured as Typhoon Vongfong batters southwestern Japan | CTV News
S: Skip to Main Content
S: HOT TOPICS Viral video
S: CTV News Channel Schedule
S: CTV National News Team
S: CTV News Digital Team
S: Dozens injured as Typhoon Vongfong batters southwestern Japan
S: Published Saturday, October 11, 2014 10:30PM EDT
S: Last Updated Saturday, October 11, 2014 10:47PM EDT
S: TOKYO -- A powerful typhoon poured heavy rains over Japan's southern island of Okinawa and was aiming at the next island of Kyushu on Sunday, becoming the second severe storm to hit in a week.
S: At least 28 people have been reported injured in Kyushu and Okinawa, where authorities told 150,000 people to evacuate.
S: Typhoon Vongfong, packing winds of up to 180 kilometres per hour, has been downgraded from a "super-typhoon" and was on course to reach Kyushu by Monday.
S: Authorities issued landslide warnings and strong winds knocked out power lines, temporarily halting bullet train service for several hours on Kyushu.
S: Last week's typhoon killed three U.S. airmen who were washed out at sea in Okinawa, home to about half of the roughly 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan.
S: The U.S. military instructed service personnel and their families to remain indoors Sunday until strong winds and rain subsided, and said crews were out to assess damage.
S: People make their way through strong wind caused by approaching typhoon Vongfong in Naha, Okinawa, southern Japan, Saturday, Oct. 11, 2014.
S: CTV News Channel: Social experiment goes viral
S: Canada AM: Actual strength of a bear
S: CTV News Channel: Canadians react to video
S: CTV Toronto: Plane pulled from lake
S: CTV News Channel: Social media reacts to cat calls
S: CTV Calgary: Mall lot takes on water
S: CTV Barrie: WWII plane recovered
S: CTV News Channel: Video shows Canadian tolerance
S: CTV Calgary: Foundation set up in honour of Nathan O'Brien
S: CTV Edmonton: WestJet passengers paying for bags
S: LIVE1: MPs debate during question period
S: CTV News Channel: Unmanned rocket launches
S: Write your comment here :
S: Enter your name :
S: Enter your email :
S: *Will not be shown on the website
S: Type in the characters you see in the picture below.
S: If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.
S: We welcome your comments.
S: Bell Media reviews every comment submitted, and reserves the right to approve comments and edit for brevity and clarity.
S: Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.
S: Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.
S: Preference is given to commenters who use real names.
S: Stay on topic and be concise.
S: What not to do:
S: We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks.
S: We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading.
S: We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed.
S: If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.
S: We will not publish comments that link to outside websites.
S: Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts.
S: You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
S: More Stories from World
S: Cuba launches national push to increase number of babies
S: Sri Lanka mudslide buries homes; 10 dead, more than 250 missing
S: Estonian fuel tanker runs aground near Swedish coast; minor leaks reported
S: 14-year-old accused of plotting to bomb a train station in Austria
S: Islamic State troops execute 30 Sunni men in Iraq: residents
S: Man accused of murdering 7 women in Indiana pleads not guilty
S: CTV News Video Network
S: Social experiment of 'Muslim Man' harassment goes viral
S: LIVE soon: Obama delivers remarks on Ebola
S: Reaction from travellers to new WestJet baggage fees
S: 70-year-old warplane pulled from bottom of Lake Muskoka
S: Water main accidentally drilled, parking lot becomes a lake
S: Calgary mom horrified after 911 call for pre-schooler put her on hold
S: Pope Francis: Evolution is real, God did not wave a 'magic wand'
S: Jian Ghomeshi tweets sent when I was 'shaken up' by Ottawa shootings: May
S: Canadians stand up to Islamophobe in social experiment that ends with punch
S: Video captures 108 catcalls in 10 hours on NYC stroll
S: Couple can't seek damages in language feud with Air Canada: SCC
S: Employee quits after WestJet asks her to change hair
S: Halloween weather forecast: Some Canadians to get treats, others tricks
S: Gordie Howe showing some improvement after stroke, family says
S: Paris Hilton's new Canadian dog making her other pooches 'jealous'
S: Connect with CTV News
S: You will need to enable JavaScript in order to use the Widget.
S: Kuwait plays uneasy host as Canadian jets join anti-ISIS campaign
S: Backlash over 'Pocahottie' and 'Fat Girl' Halloween costumes
S: Canadian held in Indonesian jail facing charges
S: Cuba launches national push to increase number of babies
S: Sri Lanka mudslide buries homes; 10 dead, more than 250 missing
S: Estonian fuel tanker runs aground near Swedish coast; minor leaks reported
S: Paris Hilton's new Canadian dog making her other pooches 'jealous'
S: Iowa residents create hay bale art for Halloween
S: Elizabeth Norment, 'House of Cards' actress, dies at 61
S: 5 things to know about strokes as Howe's ailment shines spotline on condition
S: Chile plants first medical marijuana aimed to help cancer patients
S: Medical groups call for $1.5B stem cell investment
S: Doug Ford considers running for Ontario PC leadership
S: Salaries at scandal-ridden Ornge, eHealth may be capped by Ontario government
S: MPs return to caucus after shootings: 'It's going to be a tough day'
S: Sick tortoise X-ray reveals that it swallowed a turtle pendant
S: Orbital promises to pinpoint cause of Antares rocket explosion
S: Halo-like device protects blind dogs from bumps
S: TSX lower as Fed announces end to QE program
S: Environmental groups question refinery benefits of Energy East in new report
S: Orbital Sciences shares take a hit after rocket explosion
S: Milos Raonic's 19 aces good for second-round win at Paris Masters
S: Gordie Howe showing some improvement after stroke, family says
S: Canadian midfielder Diana Matheson out indefinitely with knee injury
S: Ford recalling 200,000 SUVs in Canada, U.S. to fix gas tank leaks
S: Chrysler recalls more than 566,000 vehicles; 68K in Canada
S: Drivers moving between Ireland and Ontario can swap licences
S: Baseball-sized meatballs to insects on a skewer: Food trucks in food-crazed Belgium
S: Mother of 12 boys expecting baby No.
S: 13: 'I love being pregnant'
S: Club Med to offer circus lessons with Cirque du Soleil
S: Orbital promises to pinpoint cause of Antares rocket explosion
S: Skin care tips for cancer patients
S: Carrot Ginger Soup, Butternut Squash Chicken Enchilada & BBQ Salmon Rice Bowl
S: NASA Disasters: When spaceflight goes wrong
S: A nation in mourning: Tributes for a fallen soldier
S: Canadians get in the Halloween spirit
S: Bell Media Press Room
S: CTV Northern Ontario News
S: CTV News on Mobile
S: Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy?? 2014  All rights reserved.Bell Media Television
S: Typhoon Vongfong batters Japan, injures 28 - World - CBC News
S: Typhoon Vongfong batters Japan, injures 28 - World - CBC News
S: Skip to main content
S: Skip to CBC accessibility page
S: Major StoriesIn The News
S: Typhoon Vongfong batters Japan, injures 28
S: Japan hit by 2nd typhoon in less than a week
S: Posted: Oct 11, 2014 6:59 AM ET
S: Last Updated: Oct 11, 2014 10:39 PM ET
S: The Japanese government has ordered 150,000 to evacuate their homes as Typhoon Vongfong slams the southwest regions of the country.
S: Inside the eye of a cyclone
S: A powerful typhoon has poured heavy rains over Japan's southern island of Okinawa and veered northeastward toward the main island of Kyushu, becoming the second severe storm to hit in a week.
S: The power and fury of tropical storms
S: Hurricanes and typhoons: inside the eye of a cyclone
S: At least 28 people have been reported injured in Kyushu and Okinawa, and 150,000 people have been told to evacuate.
S: Typhoon Vongfong has sparked mudslide warnings and halted bullet train service Saturday.
S: (Kyodo News/Associated Press)Typhoon Vongfong, packing winds of up to 178 km/h, has been downgraded from a "super-typhoon" and is on course to reach Kyushu by Monday.
S: Warnings have been issued about mudslides and strong winds knocked out power lines, halting bullet train service.
S: Last week's typhoon killed three U.S. airmen who were washed out at sea in Okinawa.
S: Okinawa is home to about half of the roughly 50,000 American troops stationed in Japan.
S: ?? The Associated Press, 2014
S: Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines.
S: Comments are welcome while open.
S: We reserve the right to close comments at any time.
S: Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted.
S: By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever.
S: Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines.
S: Stay Connected with CBC News
S: Jaylen Fryberg was confronted by 1st-year teacher during Washington school shooting
S: Republicans may take Senate next week, presidency a whole other matter
S: Ebola outbreak: U.S. travel quarantines could deter health workers
S: Washington school shooting: 2nd teen girl dies from injuries
S: Oscar Pistorius: South Africa prosecutors to appeal verdict, sentence
S: New Zealand to vote on changing flag
S: Ukraine election: Exit polls show Ukraine overwhelmingly elects pro-West parliament
S: CBC Ideas: Is Islam the 'green' religion?
S: Report into multiple Metro-North train accidents finds fault with railroad
S: Missouri execution halted by Supreme Court after plea from 15 judges
S: Canada's destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context.
S: The Exchange with Amanda Lang
S: The day's biggest business stories.
S: Weeknights at 7 p.m.
S: ET on CBC News Network
S: Gordie Howe's condition improving, family says
S: Ottawa shooting: New Democrats hail 'hero' guard who protected MPs
S: Antares rocket explosion: Orbital Sciences Corp. looks for cause of blast
S: Nathan Cirillo-inspired racism 'experiment' ends with punch to face
S: Obama speaks on Ebola outbreak as Maine nurse plans to end quarantine
S: Republicans may take Senate next week, presidency a whole other matter
S: TransCanada set to file Energy East pipeline application
S: Atsumi Yoshikubo, Japanese tourist, still missing in Yellowknife
S: 5 Halloween makeup tips
S: Revenue Canada's letters full of gobbledegook, internal report finds
S: Apple Pay not expected in Canada any time soon
S: Woman with intellectual disability sexually assaulted on bus as support worker sat nearby
S: Neil Bantleman, Canadian held in Indonesia, likely to be charged, family says
S: Winnipeg police search home of Andrea Giesbrecht, accused in dead infants case
S: Lac-M??gantic: Lisa Raitt announces rail safety rules based on crash findings
S: CBC: Get the Facts
S: Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
S: Program and Content Sales
S: Image Research Library & Still Photos
S: Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts
S: Copyright ?? CBC 2014
