Same-sex marriages still on hold in Louisiana, Mississippi - POLITICO 


Same-sex marriages still on hold in Louisiana, Mississippi - POLITICO




























































































































Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood said an ongoing legal proceeding in his state creates complications. | AP Photo










Same-sex marriages still on hold in Louisiana, Mississippi






By 


6/26/15 1:00 PM EDT








At least two states are holding off on allowing same-sex marriages to proceed, despite Friday’s landmark ruling that gay and lesbian couples can now marry nationwide.
 
In Mississippi and Louisiana, the states’ respective attorneys general cited different reasons as to why the court’s decision does not yet immediately apply.


Story Continued Below














In Louisiana, Attorney General James D. “Buddy” Caldwell called the Supreme Court’s ruling “yet another example of … federal government intrusion into what should be a state issue.”
 
Nothing in the court’s decision makes its order effective immediately, Caldwell’s office said in a statement posted on its 
. Louisiana voters approved a constitutional amendment in 2004 that banned same-sex marriage and civil unions.






































“Therefore, there is not yet a legal requirement for officials to issue marriage licenses or perform marriages for same-sex couples in Louisiana. The Attorney General’s Office will be watching for the Court to issue a mandate or order making today’s decision final and effective and will issue a statement when that occurs,” it said.
 
Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood said an ongoing legal proceeding in his state creates complications. Mississippi’s ban on same-sex marriage was overturned in a federal lawsuit last year by U.S. District Judge Carlton Reeves, but Reeves issued a stay on his order, pending the state’s appeal.
 
“The Supreme Court’s decision is not immediately effective in Mississippi,” Hood said in a release, according to a report from the 
. “It will become effective in Mississippi and circuit clerks will be required to issue same-sex marriage licenses when the 5th Circuit lifts the stay of Judge Reeves’ order. This could come quickly or may take several days. The 5th Circuit might also choose not to lift the stay and instead issue an order which could take considerably longer before it becomes effective.”
 
The statement from Hood was posted on the attorney general’s website, though it returned a 404 error when refreshed. A 
 of the page shows the earlier statement, as reported by local media.
 
Later on Friday, the attorney general posted a new statement clarifying the state’s position.
 
“The Office of the Attorney General is certainly not standing in the way of the Supreme Court’s decision. We simply want to inform our citizens of the procedure that takes effect after this ruling. The Supreme Court decision is the law of the land and we do not dispute that,” Hood said. “When the 5th Circuit lifts the stay of Judge Reeves’ order, it will become effective in Mississippi and circuit clerks will be required to issue same-sex marriage licenses.”






































Rob McDuff, the Jackson attorney who represented the plaintiffs in Mississippi, told the Clarion-Ledger that there is “absolutely no reason to delay issuing licenses to people who are entitled to get married under the United States Constitution.”
 
The reaction was different in Alabama. That state’s Supreme Court in March ordered its probate judges to halt issuing marriage licenses, after which U.S. District Judge Callie Granade ruled in May that the state acted unconstitutionally. Granade clarified that her order to issue licenses applied statewide, but she also stayed the order until the highest court’s ruling.
 
The state’s Attorney General Luther Strange acknowledged that the ruling is now the law of the land.
 
“Short of the passage of a Constitutional Amendment protecting marriage as between one man and one woman, the U.S. Supreme Court has the final say,” Strange said in his statement.
 
But at least one probate judge in Alabama said that his office will no longer issue marriage licenses to anyone—gay or straight.
 
“My office discontinued issuing marriage licenses in February, and I have no plans to put Pike County back into the marriage business,” Judge Wes Allen said in a statement on Friday, noting that state law merely says that probate judges “may” issue marriage licenses.






Authors:
























This story tagged under:














































































































































































































































































































By JOHN CULHANE


































By EMILY ESFAHANI SMITH 


































By FREDRIK DEBOER


































By HELEN BENEDICT






































































Please enable JavaScript to view the 










































































The Latest 
50
 
from POLITICO


































































Select Edition




U.S. Edition


Europe Edition
















POLITICO Links
















© 2015 POLITICO LLC



























































































