
Indonesian plane crash: Scores feared dead and hotel destroyed after military plane comes down in Sumatran town of Medan - New Articles - The Independent



Indonesian plane crash: Scores feared dead and hotel destroyed after military plane comes down in Sumatran town of Medan - New Articles - The Independent
































































































Monday 24 August 2015
























































































































































































































































































>














Indonesian plane crash: Scores feared dead and hotel destroyed after military plane comes down in Sumatran town of Medan



















 




















Reports emerging appear to show an area devastated by the crash


















 







Rose Troup Buchanan




Rose is an online news reporter for The Independent.




































Tuesday 30 June 2015































 




















Your friend's email address 












Your email address 























Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our 










































An Indonesian military plane has crashed in the city of Medan in Sumatra killing at least 55 people with the death toll likely to rise as the full extent of the crash becomes clear.










Initial reports indicated that the Hercules C-130, which crashed into a hotel and two homes in the northern Indonesian town of Medan at around midday, was carrying just 12 passengers.
These estimates have been dramatically scaled up, as authorities said that as many as 113 individuals - some relatives of military personnel - were on-board.
"It looks like there are no survivors," Air Marshal Agus Supriatna told a local television crew.
So far 49 bodies have been removed from the crash site and taken to a nearby hospital, according to anonymous local hospital workers. Two people from the neighbourhood in Medan are also reported to have been critically injured and are currently receiving medical attention in hospital.
Earlier, a spokesperson for the Adam Malik hospital confirmed that 20 bodies had been received by the hospital so far.
A local radio station, 
El Shinta
, reported homes had been hit while local television screened images appearing to show an aeroplane in flames.  On social media images circulated appearing to show huge plumes of black smoke billowing into the skies above the crowded city.
"I saw the plane from the direction of the airport and it was tilting already, then I saw smoke billowing," an eye-witness told 
AFP.






Crowds gather around the debris caused by the crash








Residents take pictures of the crash as smoke billows into the sky



Eye-witness reports claimed to have seen the  C-130B Hercules aircraft, which entered service half a century ago, circling overhead before it burst into flames and crashed into the heavily built-up area.
"It passed overhead a few times, really low," Elfrida Efi, a receptionist at the Golden Eleven Hotel, told 
Reuters
 by phone. "There was fire and black smoke. The third time it came by it crashed into the roof of the hotel and exploded straight away," she added.
Dwi Badarmanto, an air force spokesperson, said that crash had occurred a few minutes before midday after the plane took off from an air force base in the city en route to Tanjung Pinang in Sumatra.
The pilot is believed to have radioed control to ask to return after reporting technical problems.
Additional reporting by Associated Press and Reuters
















































Enter URL:








Enter URL:






































News
























news


















News
























news


















News
























people


















Arts and Entertainment
























books
































Sport
























football


















News
























people


















Student
























student


















Life and Style
























love + sex


















News
























news






















News
























people


















Arts and Entertainment
























books


















News
























tv


















Life and Style
























food + drink


















News
























people































































Please provide search keyword(s)

























































































































































































































































1
















2
















3
















4
















5
























 
 






























































































































































































































< Previous


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


Next >
















































SPONSORED FEATURES
































































































Day In a Page




































1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31






January


February


March


April


May


June


July


August


September


October


November


December






1992


1993


1994


1995


1996


1997


1998


1999


2000


2001


2002


2003


2004


2005


2006


2007


2008


2009


2010


2011


2012


2013


2014


2015




Go




















 
























Turkey's buffer zone in Syria: self-defence – or just anti-Kurd?
 
Ankara accused of exacerbating racial division by allowing Turkmen minority to cross the border
 










'A subversive brothel keeper and Communist'
 
Acclaimed novelist Doris Lessing was kept under MI5 observation for 18 years, newly released papers show
 










BBC heads to the Californian coast
 
The Big Blue Live crew is preparing for the first of three episodes on Sunday night, filming from boats, planes and an aquarium studio
 










Victorian fraudster who shook the Bank of England
 
Conman Austin Bidwell. was a heartless cad who carried out the most daring forgery the world had known
 










Car hacking scandal
 
Security designed to stop thieves hot-wiring almost every modern motor has been cracked
 














Take your seat: 10 best placemats
 
Protect your table and dine in style with a bold new accessory
 










Cook not the only one to be caught in The Oval mindwarp
 
Aussie skipper Michael Clarke was lured into believing that what we witnessed at Edgbaston and Trent Bridge would continue in London, says Kevin Garside
 










Can Benitez get the best out of Bale?
 
Back at the club he watched as a boy, the pressure is on Benitez to find a winning blend from Real's multiple talents. As La Liga begins, Pete Jenson asks if it will be enough to stop Barcelona
 










Beijing witnesses new stage in the Jess and Kat rivalry
 
The last time the two British heptathletes competed, Ennis-Hill was on the way to Olympic gold and Johnson-Thompson was just a promising teenager. But a lot has happened in the following three years
 










Jeremy Corbyn interview: A shrewd operator desperate for power
 
His radical anti-austerity agenda has caught the imagination of the left and politically disaffected and set a staid Labour leadership election alight
 














Isis executes Palmyra antiquities chief
 
Robert Fisk on the defender of the ancient city's past who was killed for protecting its future
 










Berlusconi's world of sleaze
 
The astonishing lifestyle once enjoyed by Italy's former PM
 










Disney plans galactic domination with endless Star Wars spin-offs
 
Films and theme parks are just the beginning. Disney believes its control of the now decades-old franchise can bring in merchandise and marketing millions for years to come
 










Could gaming arcades be revived?
 
The days when coin-ops were the only way to play the latest video games are gone. But a small band of enthusiasts are keeping the button-pushing dream alive
 










Heard the one about menstruation?
 
Yes, if you have been at the Fringe, where period pieces are taking centre stage
 




































































































































































































































© independent.co.uk























































Please provide search keyword(s)












































































































