Putin on FIFA arrests: The U.S. is out to ruin Russia’s World Cup.





Putin on FIFA arrests: The U.S. is out to ruin Russia’s World Cup.







    Like us on Facebook for more great Slate stories!
    











    Follow us on Twitter for more great Slate stories!
    
















































































Putin on FIFA Arrests: The U.S. Is Out to Ruin Russia’s World Cup




















































 






















Your News Companion
May 28 2015 11:14 AM




Putin on FIFA Arrests: The U.S. Is Out to Ruin Russia’s World Cup





















      
        By 






















































 
 
Russian President Vladimir Putin, upper left, and FIFA President Sepp Blatter, upper right, attend the 2014 FIFA World Cup final between Germany and Argentina in Rio de Janeiro on July 13, 2014.
 
Photo by Pedro Ugarte/AFP/Getty Images












In international politics, it’s not a great sign when Vladimir Putin is the only guy standing up for you. This is, after all, the man who 
 after he was accused of multiple counts of rape, and is also just about the only head of state who 
. So I’m not sure embattled FIFA head Sepp Blatter should necessarily be encouraged that Putin is now 
.






Yesterday, Putin 
 of top FIFA officials, implying that it was an attempt by the U.S. to take the World Cup away from Russia. “We know about the pressure that he has been put under to cancel the 2018 World Cup in Russia,” Putin said of Blatter in remarks posted on the Kremlin’s website. The Russian president also invoked the cases of Julian Assange and Edward Snowden, calling the FIFA indictments “another blatant attempt by the United States to extend its jurisdiction to other states.” Whatever your opinions on those two, comparing the 
 of the world’s most popular sport to fugitive whistleblowers is a little rich.










Top Comment





    
        
            In other words, he has admitted that Russia made under the table payments to obtain FIFA approval.  How else might this investigation take the World Cup away from Russia?  There's a broader issue as well.  




-Walsingham


















 Advertisement 
 










Putin does have reason to worry: After yesterday’s arrests, Swiss officials announced that they are opening an investigation into allegations of corruption in the awarding of the 2018 World Cup to Russia and the 2022 World Cup to Qatar. The Russian bid has
 since the decision was made in 2010, including 
 that that a senior European soccer official was given a Picasso in exchange for his support. A controversial FIFA-commissioned investigation—that was 
 by its own investigator—
 along with Qatar of any wrongdoing last year, though it also noted that the Russian bid team had made “only a limited amount of documents available for review.”






There were already calls last year, 
, for Western countries to boycott the 2018 World Cup on political grounds. As with the 
 of the Sochi Olympics in 2014, many Russians may see the multiple investigations into the Russian bid and calls to strip the country of its World Cup as another U.S.-led attempt to steal Russia’s moment in the sun. Putin, who’s 
, is sure to take full advantage of the sentiment. 
















Joshua Keating is a staff writer at 
Slate 
focusing on international affairs. 


































































































 










Load Comments














































 


News & Politics






Politics




Aug. 23 2015 9:01 PM




Where Black Lives Matter Began


Hurricane Katrina exposed our nation’s amazing tolerance for black pain.


Jamelle Bouie




























































 


Business






Moneybox




Aug. 24 2015 1:53 PM




Tim Cook to Investors: Don’t Panic. Apple Is Doing Just Fine in China.




Alison Griswold




























































 


Life






Outward




Aug. 24 2015 2:36 PM




Let’s Debunk the Nonsense in This Pathetic Ted Cruz Ad About Anti-Gay “Religious Liberty”




Mark Joseph Stern




























































 


Double X






The XX Factor




Aug. 24 2015 1:11 PM




The Ashley Madison Hack Is a Peephole Into “Traditional” Christian Marriage




Amanda Marcotte


































































 


Slate Plus






The History of American Slavery




Aug. 24 2015 10:12 AM




When Cotton Became King


History of American Slavery, Episode 6: The rise of the 19th-century cotton economy brings about a powerful and frightening turn for the worse.


Jamelle Bouie and Rebecca Onion














Slate






Slate






















 


Arts






Brow Beat




Aug. 24 2015 12:40 PM




Hear Nirvana Jam Out on a Previously Unreleased Song for Eight Full Minutes. It’s 
Heavy
.    




Laura Bradley






















































 


Technology






Future Tense




Aug. 24 2015 1:50 PM




Fallout From Ashley Madison Breach Includes Extortion and Possible Suicides




Lily Hay Newman






















































 


Health & Science






Bad Astronomy




Aug. 24 2015 7:00 AM




Why NASA Still Can’t Put Humans in Space: Congress Is Starving It of Needed Funds




Phil Plait






















































 


Sports






Sports Nut




Aug. 18 2015 5:13 PM




College Football Players Deserve the Right to Unionize


The National Labor Relations Board knows it, but is too cowardly to say so.


John Culhane
























































































































Most Shared










































































































































FOLLOW SLATE












SLATE ON




































































Slate is published by The Slate Group, a Graham Holdings Company. All contents ©
          2015 The Slate Group
          LLC. All rights reserved.






 





















































































































