The FIFA arrests show how far Qatar has fallen in the past 5 years - Business Insider

The FIFA arrests show how far Qatar has fallen in the past 5 years - Business Insider


































































































 


















































































































 
















×


















From












To































                You have successfully emailed the post.
            
















The FIFA arrests show how far Qatar has fallen in the past 5 years






































May 27, 2015,  6:35 PM






27,360








 


























































 












REUTERS/Francois Lenoir
Members of Qatar's delegation in Zurich on December 2, 2010, after the announcement that Qatar would be host nation for the FIFA World Cup 2022.
 


See Also












































The US Department of Justice's 
 accused of bribery and racketeering in conjunction with their roles at FIFA, soccer's international governing body, barely mention Qatar.


Nevertheless, the accusations don't reflect well on the oil- and gas-rich Persian Gulf monarchy that won the rights to host the 2022 World Cup.


If the allegations made by DOJ prosecutors are accurate, the hosting rights for the 2010 World Cup, the 2011 FIFA presidential election, and a number of South American soccer tournaments were tainted by nearly $150 million in bribes. It's difficult to believe that Qatar's World Cup bid was any cleaner than the rest of the apparently sordid day-to-day business of FIFA.


Indeed, a 
 from former US federal prosecutor Michael J. Garcia found certain FIFA officials 
 to vote to award Qatar the tournament. FIFA suppressed the publication of Garcia's report, and the organization's only response to the mounting evidence of an illicit sale of the 2022 bid has been to insist Qatar's hosting of the World Cup will not be revoked or even reassessed.


It is possible Qatar's hosting rights will be able to weather the most intense legal scrutiny to which FIFA has ever been subjected. FIFA is obviously loath to strip the Middle East of its first World Cup — if the soccer world's sanctioning body is willing to 
 and tolerate 
, it seems unlikely its plans will be swayed by accusations that haven't even made it to a courtroom yet.


At the same time, the arrests fit into a larger trajectory for the Gulf emirate. Qatar once represented a fresh alternative to the traditionally staid and stability-minded governments of the Persian Gulf. The Qatari monarchy built Al Jazeera into the most important media force in the Middle East, often shattering the region's state-held monopolies on the flow of information. During the Arab Spring, Qatar supported entities like Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood and Tunisia's Ennahda, betting that the opening of the Middle Eastern political space that started in 2011 would result in a wave of elected Islamist governments.


Outside the Middle East, Qatar 
 over the future of Sudan's war-torn Darfur region, attempted to broker 
, and agreed to host 
. Qatar attempted to make itself politically indispensable through maintaining relations with 
 and 
 — while also hosting 
, one of the most important US military installations in the Middle East.


AP
Qatar made a bad bet on the Muslim Brotherhood government of Mohamed Morsi in Egypt, which was overthrown in summer 2013. And the country's problems haven't ended there.
That balance hasn't exactly held.


The fall of the Muslim Brotherhood governments in Egypt and Tunisia dealt a blow to Qatar's prestige, while Al Jazeera was 
 over Qatar's support for the Brotherhood. Qatari officials are 
, the Al Qaeda affiliate in Syria (Nusra head Abu Muhammad al Jawlani 
 to Al Jazeera Arabic on Wednesday). The peace in Darfur hasn't held, and Al Jazeera's 
 have floundered.


Qatar's World Cup bid was once an unmistakable sign that Qatari hard and soft powers were one of the major emerging forces on the global scene. The decline of the public's perception of the Qatari World Cup, now considered an ill-gotten humanitarian catastrophe, has mirrored the drift in the country's standing more generally.


Wednesday's FIFA arrests further suggest there was never any sustainable policy undergirding Qatar's unorthodox and outsize global ambitions. The controversy over the bid is the end result of the world's misplaced hope that the apparently pro-American, peace-minded, Al Jazeera-broadcasting regime in Doha would be able to deliver on its desire to be an influential and constructive player on the world stage.


The World Cup bid may have delivered the tournament to Qatar, but with these serious allegations, the games will not necessarily come with the prestige the country once hoped for. Instead the tournament will only expose how unready Qatar was to become a serious global player, and how badly the rest of the world misjudged it.






SEE ALSO:
 










NOW WATCH: 












Please enable Javascript to watch this video






 









            More:

                                                        






































































































Recommended For You
































































Comments 


Comments on this post are now closed.










































 
Loading
























The FIFA arrests show how far Qatar has fallen in the past 5 years






The US Department of Justice's charging...








































Recommended For You
















 
















































Featured
















 
















 
















 






 










Get 
Military & Defense
 Emails & Alerts










Sign-Up















									Military Select							






More























													Business Insider Select												









													Tech Select												









													Tech Chart Of The Day												









													Markets Chart Of The Day												









													10 Things Before the Opening Bell												









													Instant MBA												









													Breaking News												









													Business Insider Events												































													Finance Select												









													Markets Select												









													Monday Scouting Report												









													Your Money Select												









													Financial Advisor Insights												









													Smart Investor												































													Strategy Select												









													Advertising Select												









													Retail Select												









													Careers Select												









													null												































													Politics Select												









													Military Select												































													Life Select												









													Transportation Select												









													Education Select												









													Entertainment Select												































													Enterprise Select												









													Science Select												









													Mobile Chart Of The Day												









													E-Commerce Chart Of The Day												









													Payments Chart Of The Day												









													Digital Media Chart Of The Day												









													IoT Chart of the Day												































													Sports Chart Of The Day												































													10 Things In Tech You Need To Know												









													Closing Bell												































													Sports												








































Latest Research
































Read Business Insider On The Go




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
















Find A Job






































































Thanks to our partners


































































































* Copyright © 2015 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. 
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                                        
                    and
                                                            
.
















Powered by 


Stock quotes by 










International Editions:


 





































































































