Crude oil train derails in ND; residents evacuate town - NY Daily News 
 
Crude oil train derails in ND; residents evacuate town - NY Daily News
 
 


 


 






























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Search
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crude oil train derails in North Dakota; residents evacuate town
 
 BY  
 
 
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
 
Updated: Wednesday, May 6, 2015, 3:01 PM
 
 
A
 
A
 
A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Share this URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KHND RADIO IN HARVEY NORTH DAKOTA
 
The North Dakota Department of Emergency Services confirms 10 rail tank cars are burning near Heimdal following an early morning derailment.
 
 
 
 

	A train carrying crude oil derailed and burned outside a small North Dakota town, forcing its 25 residents to evacuate Wednesday morning, officials said.



	The BNFS Railway tanker veered off track at about 7:30 a.m. outside Heimdal, about 115 miles northeast of the state's capital, officials said. Ten tank cars burst into flame and continued to smolder five hours later.



	"It's all over the place," Wells County Sheriff's Office Deputy Janelle Pepple told the Daily News. "Thick, billowing black smoke; flames shooting 100 feet in the air. It's a pretty spectacular-looking fire."



	Including about 10 people from surrounding farms, about 35 people evacuated the area, Pepple said. No one was injured.



	"Everybody's safe. It's a big show. Everybody wants to look and see what's happening," she said of the community's reaction.



	Wells County resident Jennifer Willis told 
 she heard the derailment from her house and it sounded like "thunder" and "little explosions."



	The smoke could harm people with respiratory problems but does not contain toxic chemicals like fumes from past crude oil train derailments, said Dave Glatt, the state environmental health chief.



	The Environmental Protection Agency is sending someone to see if the wreck contaminated a nearby waterway, known as the Big Slough, that drains into the James River, the Associated Press reported.



	Officials did not immediately say how they planned to combat the flames or if the oil contained highly combustible natural gas liquids.



	"In the past, we've just let these burn out," Cecily Fong of the state's Department of Emergency Services told 



	Five local fire and Hazmat crews are on the scene, 
reported.



	BNFS said it will work with first responders.



	Ten investigators from the Federal Railroad Administration are heading to the scene to determine the cause, acting administrator Sarah Feinberg said in a statement.



	North Dakota ships about two-thirds of its oil by rail and has been sending out more, thanks to increased pipeline production, 
reported.



	The fiery scene blackened the sky less than a week after federal regulators announced new rules for oil trains, including phasing out older tank cars and instituting speed limits. 



	"Today's incident is yet another reminder of why we issued a significant, comprehensive rule aimed at improving the safe transport of high hazard flammable liquids," Feinberg said in a statement. "The FRA will continue to look at all options available to us to improve safety and mitigate risks."



	The new standards were implemented following a recent spate of train derailments and explosions.



	In February, an oil tanker heading to North Dakota 
 in West Virginia and sparked an explosion. One CSX car tipped oil into the Kanawha River.



	Residents of another North Dakota town, 
 following a crude oil train derailment in December 2013.




With News Wire Services.


 
 
 
Related Stories
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






 
 
 






 
 
 


















 
 
 
 


 


 
 
 
Comments
 
 
Post A Comment
 
[ 
]
 
 
To Post Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most Popular
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


News
 Video






 
 
 










 
 
 
 
 
 















































            Use of this website signifies your agreement to the 
 and
            
.
           


© Copyright 2015 NYDailyNews.com. All rights reserved.






 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 