Ebola Cases Could Rise To 1.4 Million By January, CDC SaysEbola Cases Could Rise To 1.4 Million By January, CDC Says
















		View mobile site	



 

















































October 15, 2014

Huffpost Healthy Living






		Edition: U.S.

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get Healthy LivingNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search






























iOS app
Android app
More








 Log in
Create Account





Notifications


0














$USERNAME




Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


Women








This Comic Perfectly Captures How Feminism Helps Everyone
323




The Night Facebook Suggested I 'Might Know' My Rapist
39




Sarah Silverman's Equal Pay Video Faces Backlash
31




Kristen Stewart Thinks It's 'Ridiculous' To 'Say You're Not A Feminist'
64




How Internet Dating Has Become Ruthless
15




Go to Women




More in Women

Love & Sex
Career & Money
Women's Health



You Might Also Like

Style
Weddings
Divorce
Parents
Healthy Living
Black Voices
Latino Voices







Taste








8 Reasons Why People Really, Really Love Wegmans
22




Martha Stewart Takes Another Dig At Gwyneth Paltrow With 'Conscious Coupling' Story
110




Attention: Greek Yogurt Is Not Just For Breakfast
1




Behold, The Veggie Burger That Bleeds
1




15 Best Mac And Cheese Spots In America
3




Go to Taste




More in Taste

Recipes
Baking
Entertaining
Healthy Eating
Taste Tests
Thanksgiving



You Might Also Like

Food
Healthy Living
Travel
OWN







Good News








These Disney Characters Have Some Magical Selfie Game
1




We Love Shelter Pets! According To This Report, You Do Too
13




This Cat And This Baby Deer Just Pranced Right Into Our Hearts
34




This Guy Was Dancing Alone On A Train. Then People Started To Join In.
23




Golden Retrievers Tend To Owner For 2 Days After Fall Until Help Arrives, Show True Loyalty
39




Go to Good News




You Might Also Like

GPS for the Soul
Weird News
Comedy
Impact
Green
Healthy Living
Comedy
Books
Arts







Parents








The Time P!nk's Toddler Dropped The F-Bomb
26




16 Things I Want My Daughter To Know
50




7 Bizarre (But Common) Pregnancy Dreams, And What They Really Mean
8




The Beautiful Breastfeeding Photograph Causing A Stir Online
102




Dad Captures Beautiful Photos Of Son's Childhood After Almost Losing Him
14




Go to Parents




More in Parents

Parentry
Moms
Dads
Screen Sense



You Might Also Like

Education
Food
Taste
Arts
Teen
Post 50







Style








Makeup Artist Transforms Herself Into Rocky, Keith Richards & More Icons
10




Gisele Bundchen's Chanel No. 5 Commercial Has Us Envious For All The Right Reasons
0




The Unexpected Fall Nail Color You Should Be Wearing
68




6 Absurd Items From The Neiman Marcus Christmas Book That We Kind Of Want
2




Bet You Didn't Know Katie Holmes Could Do This
0




Go to Style




More in Style

The Beauty Page
Fashion Trends
Celebrity Style



You Might Also Like

Home
Women
Parents
Weddings
Travel
Divorce
Post 50







Post50








How Suzanne Somers Keeps Her Sex Life Steamy At 67
0




6 Halloween Treats From Our Youth That Make Us Want To Be Kids Again
17




Actress Madeleine Stowe On Conquering Limitations After 50
0




Why I'm Thinking Of Separating From A Wonderful Man After 27 Years Together
27




Go to Post50




More in Post50

Reinvention
Retirement
Parenting
Health
Love



You Might Also Like

Parents
GPS for the Soul
Women
Money
Healthy Living







Religion








Conservative Catholics Strike Back Against Welcoming Gays
325




Atheist Wins $2 Million Settlement Over Faith-Based Rehab Program
0




Dramatic Shift Towards Gays Proposed At Vatican
691




Catholics React To 'Revolutionary' Vatican Document
109




What Exactly Did Hillsong's Brian Houston Know About His Dad's Alleged Sex Abuse?
1




Go to Religion




More in Religion

Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism



You Might Also Like

Arts
World
Healthy Living
Impact
GPS for the Soul







Weddings








Air Force Captain's Proposal To NFL Cheerleader Is The Definition Of All-American Sweetness
0




Married Couples Reveal What Really Happens On The Wedding Night
3




9 Pieces Of Advice Married Couples Wish They Had Known On Their Wedding Day
5




See Who Got Married This Weekend!
0




Go to Weddings




More in Weddings

Planning 101
Etiquette and Advice
Indiebride
Honeymoons
Destination Weddings
Weddings 2.0
After the Wedding



You Might Also Like

Style
Travel
Food









HuffPost Live







Now
Vatican Backtracks On Gay Comments 






Next
FYC: New York Film Festival






Coming Up
H. Jon Benjamin LIVE






Coming Up
New York Times Reporter James Risen LIVE






Tomorrow
Author John Warley LIVE




Go to Huffpost Live



All Sections






News

Politics
WorldPost
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News



Entertainment

Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV



Life & Style

Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN
Dr. Phil



Tech & Science

Tech
Science
Green
Code



Voices

Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact



Local

Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Hawaii
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
San Francisco





Our Mobile Apps:

iOS
Android
HuffPost Live (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (Android)










Healthy Living


Health And Fitness


GPS for the Soul


Health News


Sleep


Healthy Living Videos


Moments Not Milestones


Lifestyle


Third Metric


Thrive
























Ebola Patient Flew Day Before Symptoms Started

2014-10-15 11:30:04







2nd Dallas Hospital Worker To Contract Ebola ID'd

2014-10-15 11:38:03







Second Health Care Worker With Ebola Was In Isolation Within 90 Minutes: Official

2014-10-15 08:45:58







2nd Texas Health Care Worker Tests Positive For Ebola

2014-10-15 05:08:17







Health Officials Monitoring 125 For Ebola Symptoms

2014-10-14 18:07:35







Nurses: Ebola Patient Was Left In Open Area For Hours

2014-10-15 09:42:00







About 70 Hospital Staffers Cared For Ebola Patient, Records Show

2014-10-13 18:49:31







10 Foods You Might Be Eating Wrong

2014-10-12 11:11:13







Nurses Say U.S. Hospitals Aren't Adequately Prepared To Handle Ebola Patients

2014-10-14 13:14:02







First Known Person To Contract Ebola In U.S. Identified

2014-10-13 12:19:58







12 Weird Health Tips That Really Work

2014-10-12 11:11:03







WATCH: 8 Exercises You're Probably Doing Wrong

2014-10-10 08:17:21







This Illustration Of Ebola Coverage Shows How Problematic Media Reports Can Be

2014-10-08 19:52:48







Famous Surgeon: 'Our Health System Has Failed Brittany Maynard'

2014-10-13 13:15:40







A 29-Year-Old Woman's Heartbreaking Choice To Access Death With Dignity

2014-10-08 18:37:05




Previous Story
Next Story












Ebola Cases Could Rise To 1.4 Million By January, CDC Says





                   Reuters				                   







        Posted: 
            09/23/2014 10:28 am EDT        


        Updated: 
            09/23/2014  8:59 pm EDT        






 







Share






Tweet








0




Email





Comment













tumblr




stumble



reddit

 























* Worst-case scenario of 1.4 million infected unlikely -CDC* New forecasts highlight scale of challenge posed by crisis* Experts warn Ebola may rumble on for years in West Africa

* Liberian leader sees progress within weeksBy Sharon Begley and Tom MilesNEW YORK/GENEVA, Sept 23 (Reuters) - Global experts issued stark new warnings of the scale of West Africa's Ebola outbreak on Tuesday, with the U.S. government estimating between 550,000 and 1.4 million people might be infected in the region by January.The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said its projection was based on data from late August and did not take into account a planned U.S. mission to fight the disease, so the upper end of the forecast was unlikely.However, it followed research by experts from the World Health Organization (WHO) and Imperial College, which estimated that 20,000 people risked infection within six weeks -- months earlier than previous forecasts. It warned that the disease might become a permanent feature of life in West Africa.The worst Ebola outbreak on record has already killed over 2,800 people - more than the combined total of all previous outbreaks. The disease has marched across much of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, killing dozens of health workers and crippling economies recovering from years of conflict.Outbreaks in Nigeria and Senegal appear for now to have been contained. But nations across the region fear contagion and, against expert advise, have shuttered borders and restricted travel, complicating international efforts to fight the disease."I am confident the most dire projections will not come to pass," CDC director Dr. Thomas Frieden told reporters.The worst-case scenario assumes that there are 2.5 times the number of recorded cases, currently at 5,864."A surge now can break the back of the epidemic," Frieden said. "If you get enough people effectively isolated, the epidemic can be stopped."Amid complaints from aid workers and regional leaders that the world was doing too little, U.S. President Barack Obama last week announced plans to send 3,000 troops to build 17 treatment centers and train thousands of healthcare workers.The U.S. move has been welcomed, but it was accompanied by calls for other nations to follow suit, since the disease was still spreading faster than the moves being made to contain it.Underscoring this gap, a senior U.N. official in Liberia, the worst-hit nation, said on Tuesday that 150 foreign experts were in the country but another 600 to 700 were needed.Antonio Vigilante, head of the U.N. Development Program in Liberia, said Liberia now had 350 to 400 beds for Ebola patients, but that fell far short of the 2,000 needed."Even if we are at 2,000 beds two or three weeks from now, the cases we'll have in any single day may be more than that," he said.HORRENDOUS, SCARYMuch of the international medical assistance has been provided by French medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF). However, the group says it is overwhelmed and has called for states to send their medics to the region. The response so far has been muted."We have announcements that more will come but very small numbers," Vigilante added. "The American military are bringing in a camp hospital, but it is for 25 beds with medical staff. And so there are still very few."In a bid to fill the void, Liberia is now planning to train some 40,000 community workers.Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf called the CDC predictions "horrendous" and "scary." But now that structures had been put in place, he said, the U.S. effort would help ensure the outbreak would decline as fast as it spread."I believe that, given another couple of weeks, we shall see that this major effort begins to show results," she said, via Skype to an audience at Georgetown University in Washington, DC.Experts from the WHO and Imperial College were less optimistic. In an article published in the New England Journal of Medicine, they warned that infections could reach 20,000 by November if strict controls were not put in place."With exponential growth, you'll see that the case numbers per week go up, so that by the second of November, over these three countries our best estimate is over 20,000 cases, confirmed and suspected cases," said Dr. Christopher Dye, WHO director of strategy and co-author of the article.The WHO forecast last month it would take nine months to reach this level of infections. Dye said nearly 10,000 of those would be in Liberia, 5,000 in Sierra Leone and nearly 6,000 in Guinea.EBOLA PERMANENTA spokesman for Sierra Leone's army said it had sealed off its borders with Liberia and Guinea, joining similar actions by countries in the region. The move went against a pledge by Africa's leaders at the African Union to lift restrictions."Our troops are on the borders to stop the movement, especially of vehicles," said army spokesman Col. Michael Samura. Witnesses in Kambia, a town bordering Guinea, said dozens of vehicles were turned back on both sides of the frontier.With the United States taking the lead in Liberia, a nation established by freed American slaves, the British government said on Tuesday it was stepping up its military and humanitarian mission in Sierra Leone, a former colony whose civil war it helped end just over a decade ago.About 40 military personnel are on the ground helping install a planned 700 new beds, and 164 staff from Britain's National Health Service have volunteered to work in West Africa. They join nations like Cuba, China, Uganda and France who have already promised or sent medics to the region.Underscoring the economic impact of the crisis, Malaysian palm oil firm Sime Darby has delayed construction of a mill for its Liberia plantation and has frozen talks to expand its planted acreage there because of the outbreak.Meanwhile, the Wellcome Trust said experimental drugs, including compounds from Mapp Biopharmaceutical, Sarepta and Tekmira, will be tested in affected states for the first time in a bid to fast-track trials.Dye, the WHO expert, said that if current efforts are fully successful, Ebola will disappear from the human population and return to its animal reservoir, as it has done in other outbreaks in Central Africa where it is relatively common.But he warned that if control efforts are only partly successful, Ebola viral disease in the human population could become "a permanent feature of life in West Africa.""Quite honestly if you ask 'can we stamp Ebola out of Liberia?' I'm not sure. In principle we know how to do it, but can we do it on the ground? It remains to be seen." (Additional reporting by Stephanie Nebehay in Geneval, Kate Kelland in London, David Morgan in Washington, Umaru Fofana in Freetown; Writing by David Lewis; Editing by Daniel Flynn, Larry King)





Also on HuffPost:







Close






Ebola in West Africa



of




























Rigiatu Kamara (R), 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease poses in her house in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014.  (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



Rigiatu Kamara (R), 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease poses with her husband Baibai Kamara (L), 40, in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014. (Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



Rigiatu Kamara, 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease smiles as she looks at the photos from her youth in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014. (Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



Rigiatu Kamara (R), 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease poses in her house in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014. (Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



KENEMA, SIERRA LEONE - AUGUST 26: (Filed) Rigiatu Kamara, 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease looks at the photos from her youth in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014. Kenema city of Sierra Leone is one of the places that Ebola virus diseases seen the most. (Photo by Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



Rigiatu Kamara, 38, who has recovered from the Ebola virus disease shows a photo from her youth in Kenema, Sierra Leone, on August 26, 2014. (Mohammed Elshamy/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images)



Liberian street artist Stephen Doe paints on September  8, 2014 a mural to inform people about the symptoms of the deadly Ebola virus in Monrovia. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



People wait for Liberian security forces to allow them to deliver foodstuff to friends and family members in the West Point area that has been hardest hit by the Ebola virus spreading in Monrovia, Liberia, Monday, Aug. 25, 2014.  (AP Photo/Abbas Dulleh)



A medical worker of the John Fitzgerald Kennedy Hospital in Monrovia disinfects a wall on September 6, 2014. The death toll from the Ebola epidemic has climbed above 2,000, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on September 5, as it voiced hopes a vaccine could be available in November. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



Medical workers of the John Fitzgerald Kennedy hospital in Monrovia, responsible for transport of the bodies of Ebola virus victims, wear their protective suits as they walk past a sick woman waiting for assistance, on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



Medical workers of the John Fitzgerald Kennedy hospital in Monrovia put on protective suits prior to carrying bodies of Ebola virus victims on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



People walk in a street in Monrovia's West Point slum on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



People walk in a street in Monrovia's West Point slum on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



A Liberian policeman stands guard on September 6, 2014 in Monrovia's West Point slum. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



Children react on September 6, 2014 during a World Food Program (WFP) food distribution in Monrovia's West Point slum. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



A man waits outside a World Food Program (WFP) food distribution tent in Monrovia's West Point slum on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)



People wait during a World Food Programme (WFP) food distribution in Monrovia's West Point slum on September 6, 2014. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP/Getty Images)









 Share


 Tweet








✖











Advertisement

























Share this
✖ close



 Current Slide			




 




More:


Ebola Cases January Prediction


Ebola Cases Prediction


Ebola Cases January


Reuters





Suggest a correction






















 


Click here to view Conversations


Conversations

















 

From Our Partners


 


Suggested For You









FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address




Options


The Morning Email



Healthy Living




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost



 
Healthy Living

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow


Healthy Living

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost



Healthy Living








RSS



Most Popular on HuffPost


Latest News


Healthy Living


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World









































Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads


Contact Us




Copyright ©2014 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of AOL Lifestyle














 












Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Morning Email


Thank you!


























 
 

