Ebola Lockdown: 92 Bodies Found In Sierra LeoneEbola Lockdown: 92 Bodies Found In Sierra Leone


We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition








Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu










Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition









Ebola Lockdown: 92 Bodies Found In Sierra Leone

A three-day lockdown in Sierra Leone to combat the ebola epidemic leads to the identification of dozens of new infections.


20:09, UK, 
Sunday 21
September 2014











An empty street in Freetown at the start of the three-day national lockdown










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share by email





Ninety-two bodies and at least 56 new infections have been discovered in Sierra Leone during a nationwide ebola lockdown.

The three-day measure came into effect on Friday to try to stem the worst ebola epidemic on record.
The country's six million residents were ordered to stay indoors as volunteers circulated to educate people about the outbreak and isolate the sick.
Some 123 people contacted authorities during the lockdown, believing they might be infected.
Of these, 56 tested positive for ebola, 31 tested negative and 36 were still awaiting their results, officials said.
Residents largely complied with the plan, and the streets remained mostly deserted, except for ambulances and police vehicles.
On Sunday evening, even before the lockdown officially ended at midnight, residents in some parts of the capital Freetown emerged onto the streets to celebrate.
Police in the western part of the city said they had made a number of arrests in an attempt to enforce the lockdown in its final hours.




A health worker helps a woman to an ambulance in Monrovia, Liberia

Earlier in the day, Stephen Gaojia, head of the Emergency Operations Centre (EOC)  that leads the national Ebola response, said a few areas had still not been reached by the government's teams.
"Even though the exercise has been a huge success so far, it has not been concluded in some metropolitan cities like Freetown and Kenema," he said.








Play video










Video:
Africa Ebola Crisis: Special Report


The EOC announced last night that it would not extend the campaign in order to reach the remaining households as it had earlier said might be required.
"It cannot be extended because its objectives have largely been met," Mr Gaojia said.
British officials recently announced they were setting up a treatment centre in Kerrytown following a direct request for help to combat the outbreak.








Play video










Video:
Lockdown To Combat Ebola Outbreak


The 62-bed facility will treat victims of the disease, including local and international health workers and volunteers.
The West Africa outbreak has so far killed more than 2,600 people and infected around twice as many since March.





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Race To Trace Passengers On Ebola Nurse Plane









Pistorius: Reeva Death 'End Of The World'









Killing Of Reeva Steenkamp Devastated Family









FTSE Loses £46bn To Plunge To 15-Month Low









Minister 'Sorry' For Disabled Wage Comments












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOWTV
The Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Arts Ignition
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2014 BSkyB













