How Liberians In The U.S. Are Dealing With An Epidemic Across The Ocean | ThinkProgressHow Liberians In The U.S. Are Dealing With An Epidemic Across The Ocean | ThinkProgress



















‹  PreviousInsurance Company Pulls Actor Rob Schneider’s Ads Over His Anti-Vaccine Views


Forbes Fires Columnist For Writing That Drunk Girls Are The Real ‘Threat’ To FraternitiesNext  ›
 


 
 


Follow


 

 TRENDING



FRONTClimate
Economy
Health
Justice
LGBT
World
Culture
Sports
Election

 
TRENDING:OBAMACAREEBOLAPUBLIC HEALTHCENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROLABORTION 





 







AP Photo/Craig Lassig


How Liberians In The U.S. Are Dealing With An Epidemic Across The Ocean

 by Sam P.K. Collins Posted on September 24, 2014 at 12:42 pm Updated: September 30, 2014 at 9:46 am



861Share This


84Tweet This



Share this:






"How Liberians In The U.S. Are Dealing With An Epidemic Across The Ocean"

Share:




The Ebola virus has infected more than 4,000 people in West Africa since February — more than half of whom have succumbed. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently estimated that if the outbreak continues unabated, more than 1.4 million people could be infected within the next four months. 
While the global health crisis has much of the region under siege, Liberia has experienced a great brunt of its wrath. According to the World Health Organization, nearly half of the cases so far have occurred in the small West African country. 
I’m in America and my heart is in Liberia so it’s not easy.
For Liberians living in the United States, watching the epidemic unfold on television and learning about family deaths from afar has been an agonizing experience. 
“I’m in America and my heart is in Liberia so it’s not easy,” Christina Jeeplay, a Liberian immigrant using a pseudonym, told ThinkProgress. “All I do is talk to my family and friends back home. When my daughter and I last spoke, four people in our community died and she heard the ambulance come pick up the bodies.”
Jeeplay, who lives in Dallas, said every phone call to her family living in the Liberian community of Jacobtown starts with a roll call of family members and neighbors. Fortunately, none of her relatives have died at the time this article was published. 
“I speak to my family once a week and it’s so hard for them because there are no hospitals for them to go to,” Liberian immigrant Theresa Charley told ThinkProgress. “People are not working. Schools aren’t open.”
A Crumbling Health System
Experts ascribe the recent spike in Ebola cases — more than 1,600 deaths in two months — to the paucity of medical and cleaning supplies in Liberian health facilities. Liberia’s civil war destroyed nearly 3 out of 5 of the country’s hospitals and clinics. According to data compiled by the World Bank, the Liberian government’s spends $22 per capita in annual healthcare costs. In a country with more than 4 million people, one doctor exists for every 100,000 Liberians. 
“Seeing the lack of adequate medical facilities and people laying outside in Monrovia really sickened me and made me feel sad about my country,” said Elizabeth Bryant, a Liberian immigrant living in New Jersey. “There are people laying outside everywhere. Hospitals don’t have gloves and suits. From what I’ve seen on television and heard from family members back home, it seems like not much was done to help people in the beginning out of the outbreak. Even the educational campaign they launched came too late.”
“Liberia has a long way to go,” Bryant, who has lived in the United States since the late 1980s, added.
It seems like not much was done to help people in the beginning out of the outbreak. Even the educational campaign they launched came too late.
Right now, two testing centers exist in Liberia — one located in Monrovia and the other stationed in the rural part of the country — and the CDC has expressed plans to build another one. Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, however, said that will not suffice at a time when 14 out of 15 Liberian counties have reported infections.  
“We could use support in rebuilding our health system,” Sirleaf said earlier this month via Skype during a forum at her alma mater Harvard Institute of Politics. At that event, Sirleaf briefly touched on health care improvements Liberians have seen since she entered office in 2006. “Those not infected by Ebola don’t have to die because of a lack of resources. We hope that we can get doctors, nurses, and healthcare facilities that focus on normal healthcare so that we don’t lose the progress we made in the last eight years.”  
Doctors on the ground say that conventional methods of containment against Ebola still haven’t worked, in part because many locals haven’t heeded warnings to stay inside. Reports out of the small West African nation recount instances when people spread the disease when taking family members to the hospital on their motorbikes. To aid in the proper disposal of dead Ebola victims, cremations have also replaced traditional ceremonies. 
Liberian immigrants living in the United States have played a role in an ongoing education campaign that aims to stop the spread of Ebola. Jeeplay said she often stresses the importance of staying inside and proper hand washing when she talks to her daughters living in the West African country. “I’m watching reports of this stuff over here and I keep trying to tell my people that it’s not a joke. I tell them to stop trying to get in contact with others,” Jeeplay said.
Sending Help From Thousands Of Miles Away
This summer, the health crisis unfolding in West Africa turned into a food crisis. Guinea and Sierra Leone sealed their borders and Ivory Coast ceased delivery of crops to Liberia, causing the prices of food sold in affected parts of the country to rise by nearly 10 percent. In response, immigrants are helping send money to their relatives in Western Africa.
“I still have bills to pay so I just send my family whatever I have,” Liberian immigrant Frances Walters, who also spoke under a pseudonym, told ThinkProgress. Walters said she often tells relatives to tighten their coffers in light of the recent price hikes. 
“I tell them to stretch it,” Walters, who has lived in D.C. since the 1980s, said. “If they don’t stretch it, they can’t get any more from me for a while. When Ebola first appeared in Liberia, it was hard for my relatives to pick up money because lines were so backed up from Western Union.”
Immigrants in the United States have also organized prayer services, raised money, and gathered essential supplies as a show of solidarity with the people in their home country. For example, a group led by Prince Lobah Monyon, a goalkeeper for Junior Lone Star FC, a Philadelphia-based soccer club, reportedly raised $5,000 last month during a soccer tournament for Liberians and Sierra Leoneans affected by Ebola. 
I just send my family whatever I have…If they don’t stretch it, they can’t get any more from me for a while.
In October, Maryland-based nonprofit JBAN Education will host an Ebola fundraiser featuring a host of musical acts by a young adult choir. Comfort Johnson, JBAN Education’s founder and a native Liberian, told ThinkProgress that she organized the event in August after the Ebola outbreak thwarted her plans to expand JBAN Education’s services to the West African country. 
“More than 300 people are expected to attend,” said Johnson. “I didn’t hear much being done in the D.C. area. I couldn’t sit by and watch as the situation worsened. We have called on all community members to give money that we will use to purchase medical supplies, gloves, and protective gear for workers.  I plan to personally work with people at some distribution sites in Liberia to see where supplies are needed the most. The response has been wonderful. People are very concerned about the Ebola virus so any amount we can raise is good.” 
The people who live outside of Liberia can also assist efforts to contain the outbreak by pledging their financial support directly to organizations working on the ground.
“There are 41 humanitarian partners working in all of West Africa,” Juanita Rilling, director of USAID’s Center for International Disaster Information (CIDI), said in an interview with ThinkProgress. Rilling explained that monetary donations to nongovernmental organizations are the most effective form of support. Within the last four weeks, 1,000 people have volunteered for relief efforts through CIDI’s volunteer registry. 
“When you give to these organizations, the money goes straight to them. I know that people are concerned about giving to nongovernmental agencies but it’s easy to determine which ones are legitimate. You can find out that by vetting the organizations, you can find the ones that are reliable and have a good reputation and have years of disaster relief on record,” Rilling told ThinkProgress. 
Skeptical Of The Government They Left Behind
While aid was slow to come in the beginning of the Ebola outbreak, Liberia has received some monetary and medical aid in recent months. After much speculation about the course of action the U.S. government would take, President Obama pledged $750 million and 3,000 military personnel in the fight against Ebola. Many Liberians, who often speak about the country’s historical ties to the U.S., commended the contribution. 
Last week, the African Union also deployed 30 health volunteers. Humanitarian groups have given medical personnel in Liberia supplies that totaled more than $6 million. The supplies include gloves, masks, antibiotics, and pain medications. Additional contributions from private companies include that of $50 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and $9 million from Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen.  
But some Liberians living in the United States still remain skeptical about whether the Liberian government will use those funds and resources properly. Beatrice Speare, a Liberian immigrant living in the Philadelphia metropolitan area, expressed her hope that the U.S. government remains involved in efforts to stop the spread of the disease.
 All of the money the government spends doesn’t go to the people.
“America knows about corruption in Liberia and other African countries,” Speare told ThinkProgress. “President Sirleaf is not doing a good job. All of the money the government spends doesn’t go to the people. When Sirleaf won the presidency, a lot of aid was given to Liberia and the government still didn’t build up the country. There’s no light or plumbing. At one point, Liberia had the best airport in West Africa. Now we don’t even have a waiting room there.”  
There have been rising tensions between the government officials and the Liberian people. Reports recently surfaced of the country’s water supply being poisoned with formaldehyde — a chemical that’s used to preserve dead bodies. Last month, an attempt to quarantine people living in the Monrovia neighborhood of West Point ended in a riot between government soldiers and residents. One teenager died during the melee after he didn’t get treatment for large bullet wounds.
Bryant, who heard firsthand accounts of the violent squabble in West Point from family members and friends and said people there were treated “inhumanely,” criticized the government’s response to the disease.
“Ebola is harmful. As a well-educated woman, President Sirleaf should have known how significant this problem was so she could tackle it before it got to this point,” Bryant said. “What are they doing to help the people in Monrovia? If the president’s child or grandchild got sick, would she take them to John F. Kennedy Hospital?” 

Tags:

Center for Disease ControlEbolaLiberiaUSAIDWorld Health Organization

 



Close
Like ThinkProgress on Facebook




Don't show this to me again


    « Climate Change Issue Makes Rep. Mike Coffman’s Head Spin Oil Producers Say Oil Train Safety Rules Wouldn’t Make Oil Trains Safer »








By clicking and submitting a comment I acknowledge the ThinkProgress Privacy Policy and agree to the ThinkProgress Terms of Use. I understand that my comments are also being governed by Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, or Hotmail’s Terms of Use and Privacy Policies as applicable, which can be found here.




 


About ThinkProgress | Contact Us | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy (off-site) | State Notices | Reuse Policy | RSS | Advertise | Donate
© 2005-2014 Center for American Progress Action Fund

 
 

     

 
 
 FRONTClimate
Economy
Health
Justice
LGBT
World
Culture
Sports
Election


TRENDING:OBAMACAREEBOLAPUBLIC HEALTHCENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROLABORTION








  















 













