Times of Zambia   |  SADC ministers call for emergency fundTimes of Zambia   |  SADC ministers call for emergency fund









About us

Org Structure
History
Contact us


Rate Cards
Products & Services

Online Subscriptions


 

Select a PageAbout us - Org Structure
- History
- Contact us
Rate Cards
Products & Services - Online Subscriptions













 




Home
Latest News

Stories
Court News


Business

Stories
Money/Stock Exchange
Columns


Letters to the Editor
Entertainment

Music
Theatre
Films
Others
Columns


Features
Opinion
Sports

Stories
Football
Rugby
Boxing
Volleyball
Columns
Others


Last post on : August 19, 2014  


Select a PageHome
Latest News - Stories
- Court News
Business - Stories
- Money/Stock Exchange
- Columns
Letters to the Editor
Entertainment - Music
- Theatre
- Films
- Others
- Columns
Features
Opinion
Sports - Stories
- Football
- Rugby
- Boxing
- Volleyball
- Columns
- Others




 


SADC ministers call for emergency fund 


Published On August 19, 2014 » 1038 Views» 
By Moses Kabaila Jr: Online Editor » 
HOME SLIDE SHOW, SHOWCASE




 0 starsRegister to vote! 
SADC Ministers Council in Victoria Falls during the SADC Summit in Zimbabwe.
By BRIAN HATYOKA in Victoria Falls town in Zimbabwe-
THE Southern African Development Community (SADC) Council of Ministers has called for the establishment of a regional fund to assist member States in emergency situations, especially in the face of the Ebola virus pandemic.
SADC Council of Ministers has directed the Finance Sub-Committee to assess modalities for the establishment of a regional fund to assist member States in emergency situations of a medical nature, including the possibility of utilising the existing funds.
This is according to a joint communiqué issued at Elephant Hills Resort in Victoria Falls town in Zimbabwe yesterday.
Zimbabwe’s Foreign Affairs Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi, who is also new SADC Council of Ministers chairperson, chaired the meeting which was attended by ministers from all member States.
The SADC Council also commended South Africa for offering its technical capacity and experience on Ebola and encouraged member States to take advantage of the offer.
On gender and development, the council urged member States that had not yet achieved the set target for equal representation of women in political and decision-making positions to take appropriate measures to do so.
Member States were urged to consider adopting appropriate measures, including legislation, policy and reform of the electoral system to facilitate the achievement of the gender parity goal in political and decision-making positions.
SADC Executive Secretary, Lawrence Tax said the council directed the regional body’s Secretariat to set up a taskforce to facilitate the draft regional multi-dimensional women’s economic empowerment programme.
Dr Tax said member States were urged to advocate for women’s access to land as it was key to food security and poverty alleviation in the region.
“Ownership and control over productive resources such as finance, credit and technology can improve women’s economic capabilities,” Dr Tax said.
On the programming of the 600 million Euros funding for the regional infrastructure, Dr Tax said the council approved the SADC list of potential regional infrastructure investment projects to be considered for financing under the 11th European Development Fund (EDF) for 2015/2016 annual action plan.
Further, the council urged member States to expedite the implementation of the SADC road map on digital broadcasting migration to ensure the region meets its international obligations and migrate before the deadline of June 17, 2015.
On the status of power demand and supply in the region, the SADC Council of Ministers urged member States to implement planned power generation projects on schedule to effectively address power shortfalls in the region.
The council also endorsed the decision taken by the Committee of Ministers on Trade to address some of the implementation challenges of the Free Trade Area.



 
Next post >>

Share this post 
























 
Tags 




About The Author





Moses Kabaila Jr: Online Editor







Comments are closed.
 



 Visits so far
 
Popular Posts





Govt unveils RDA Board
December 27, 2013  |  106440 Views
					By NAKUBIANA SHABONGO - GOVERNMENT has unveiled the...				






Preach Constitution,...
January 8, 2014  |  64923 Views
					By FLAVIOR CHISHALA - THE Oasis Forum says...				




					By PERPETUAL SICHIKWENKWE - LUSAKA-based musician Clifford Dimba,...				

‘General’ Kanene...
February 4, 2014  |  45380 Views
					By PERPETUAL SICHIKWENKWE - LUSAKA-based musician Clifford Dimba,...				


Cattle rustlers escape longer jail termChinese envoy for stronger COMESA ties35 ex-workers sue KambwiliChikoti denies   abusing office‘Theft claims have shattered my career’ 


Twitter Tweets by @timesofzambia


 




















			© 2013 Times of Zambia.		






 



X

By JUDITH NAMUTOWE  -
THE Zambezi River Authority (ZRA) has said the feasibility study on the Batoka Hydropower Station has been reviewed.
ZRA chief executive officer Munyaradzi Munodawafa said in an interview yesterday that the review on the demo structure, power house and capacity output on the project had been completed.
Mr Munodawafa said the authority was currently waiting for the second phase of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
‘‘We have reviewed the Batoka Hydropower Station feasibility study. The study on the demo structure, power house structure and the capacity output on the project has been completed,’’ Mr Munodawafa said.
He said the finalisation of the study and the EIA was expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2015.
Mr Munodawfa said consultants were currently working on other processes and thereafter the project committee which include senior Government officials , utilities and ZRA would visit the project this month.
He said once all these processes were completed, ZRA would then be able to select the developer for the project, after which the authority would be able to come up with the actual value of the project.
Zambia and Zimbabwe signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to team up and start the Batoka hydropower project which is estimated to cost about US$4 billion.
The agreement was signed during the council of ministers held at Kariba in Siavonga recently.



