
  	New Ebola Vaccine Tests Could Provide Early Results End of 2014 | Xconomy	
  	New Ebola Vaccine Tests Could Provide Early Results End of 2014 | Xconomy	












Subscribe for Free (RSS + E-mail)


RSS + E-mail



Support Xconomy Detroit → ▾


Boston Angel Investors →


Top Entrepreneurs' Advice  → 

The Sacramento-Davis Corridor →


Support Xconomy Detroit → 

Incubator Guide →





Featured ▾



The Sacramento-Davis Corridor →


Top Entrepreneurs' Advice  → 

Boston Angel Investors →


Support Xconomy Detroit → 

Incubator Guide →





Xconomy National

XperienceTech + Life▾











                                    The Rabble Aims to Make the Library Your Go-To Local Music Source                                










                                    Filip’s Wearable Phone for Kids Gets New Design, New VP of Engineering                                










                                    OnKol Wants to Help Grandma Join the Internet of Things Movement                                










                                    Data Meets Federer: How IBM and the US Open Mesh Tennis & Tech                                










                                    Weddington Way’s Ambition: Become the Amazon of Nuptials                                



View More in Xperience ›



Our Regions▾


  	                            	Boston  	                            	›




 



                          Is Clean Energy the Sleeper Tech Industry in Boston?                      



View More in   	                            	Boston  	                            	 ›


  	                            	Boulder/Denver
  		                            ›




 



                          Roundup: Partners for Ping Identity, Datalogix; Craftsy’s Milestone                      



View More in   	                            	Boulder/Denver
  		                             ›


  	                            	Detroit  	                            	›




 



                          Protean Rebrands as Stratos, Closes $5.8 Million Seed Round                      



View More in   	                            	Detroit  	                            	 ›


  	                            	New York  	                            	›




 



                          Influenster Has Its Eyes on Amazon’s Crown for Product Reviews                      



View More in   	                            	New York  	                            	 ›


  		                            Raleigh-Durham
  	                            	›




 



                          Biotech Startups Tap Spider Genes in Quest to Spin Silk Gold                      



View More in   		                            Raleigh-Durham
  	                            	 ›


  	                            	San Diego  	                            	›




 



                          Qualcomm and Techstars Establish Accelerator for Robotics Startups                      



View More in   	                            	San Diego  	                            	 ›


  	                            	San Francisco  	                            	›




 



                          Illumina Admits First Startup Accelerator Class                      



View More in   	                            	San Francisco  	                            	 ›


  	                            	Seattle  	                            	›




 



                          2nd Watch Lands $10M More As Enterprise Cloud Transition Accelerates                      



View More in   	                            	Seattle  	                            	 ›


  	                            	Texas  	                            	›




 



                          Texas Medical Center Makes Pitch to Boost Houston Biotech Startups                      



View More in   	                            	Texas  	                            	 ›


  	                            	Wisconsin  	                            	›




 



                          NeuWave Medical Corrals $4.8M for Tumor-Zapping Tech                      



View More in   	                            	Wisconsin  	                            	 ›



Tech Channels ▾





Cleantech›









                                            URC Water Tour Highlights Michigan’s Blue Economy Opportunities                                        



View More in Cleantech ›


Healthtech›









                                    San Diego Meets the Xconomists: A Real-World Innovation Commons                                



View More in Healthtech ›


Life Sciences›









                                        MyoKardia, Sanofi Ink $200M+ Deal for Targeted Heart Drugs                                    



View More in Life Sciences ›





Mobile›









                                        LeadingReach Aims to Close Healthcare’s “Weakest Link,” Referrals                                    



View More in Mobile ›


Startups›









                            The Story Behind GrabCAD’s Acquisition: MakerBot, Motives, & More                        



View More in Startups ›





Meet theXconomists ▾










                            Andy Liu                        


                        Co-Founder, BuddyTV                    







                            Alan Sachs                        


                        Head of global research and development at Life Technologies                    







                            Carol Gallagher                        


                        Former CEO, Calistoga Pharmaceuticals                    







                            Anita Goel                        


                        Chairman and CEO, Nanobiosym Diagnostics Inc.                    


Meet All the Xconomists ›










                            David Cohen                        


                        CEO and Founder, Techstars                    







                            Chris Rizik                        


                        CEO and Fund Manager, Renaissance Venture Capital Fund                    







                            Brad Feld                        


                        Managing director, the Foundry Group                    







                            Christy Shaffer                        


                        Managing Director of Hatteras Discovery and Venture Partner at Hatteras Venture Partners                    





OurEvents ▾








11/18/14 · 
                                      Boston                                    


                                    The Healthcare Summit 2014                                








11/18/14 · 
                                      Seattle                                    


                                    Xconomy Xchange: Beauty and the Data Beast—Seattle Innovation Stories                                








12/02/14 · 
                                      Boston                                    


                                    Xconomy Forum: Tech Agenda 2015                                



View All Xconomy Events ›
Boston Events ›


Boulder/Denver Events ›
Detroit Events ›


New York Events ›
Raleigh-Durham Events ›


San Diego Events ›
San Francisco Events ›


Seattle Events ›
Texas Events ›


Wisconsin Events ›

















































            New Ebola Vaccine Tests Could Provide Early Results End of 2014  				

Alex Lash8/28/14Follow @alexlash 







Share and Comment

Leave a Comment 

						Order a Reprint
					

					E-mail this Story
					



Share on Twitter



Share on Facebook



Share on Linkedin


Share on Google


Submit to Hacker News






The National Institutes of Health has the green light to begin testing a new Ebola vaccine in humans, and data showing the vaccine’s safety and ability to provoke an immune response should be available by the end of the year.
Whether those data are enough to make health officials confident to give the vaccine to people in the field remains to be seen, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director Anthony Fauci said on a conference call Thursday morning.
Once the data are available, Fauci said, “the most scientifically sound thing would be to proceed in a study that determines further safety and efficacy. But it’s impossible to predict when people can have it to use.”
Fauci called the efforts an “all-hands-on-deck response” to a public health emergency that has claimed at least 1,500 lives so far.
Fauci cautioned that the vaccine, if and when approved to use more widely, would likely first be given as a single shot to laboratory and healthcare workers treating people stricken with Ebola. It was developed by NIH and Okairos, a Swiss biotech company that GlaxoSmithKline acquired in 2013 for $325 million.
The trial, which begins next week at the NIH in Bethesda, MD, aims to enroll 20 healthy volunteers. Other trials are on tap, too, with a slightly different version of the vaccine.
The NIAID will start a second trial in October, and a public-private consortium is gearing up for a trial conducted in the United Kingdom, Mali and the Gambia. That effort is being funded by a $4.6 million grant from the Wellcome Trust, the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the UK Department for International Development.
It’s the first time this particular vaccine will be given to humans, but it’s not the first Ebola vaccine tested in humans—the NIH has run at least four other trials in recent years. They all delivered the same fragment of the Ebola virus meant to train the body’s immune system to fight infection, but they had different delivery mechanisms—known as vectors in vaccine-speak—that carried the Ebola fragment into cells. None of those previous trials advanced beyond Phase 1.
In the new efforts, the NIAID trial to begin next week carries fragments of two different Ebola strains: “Zaire,” which is causing the current outbreak, and “Sudan.” The second NIAID trial and the UK consortium trial will test a version with just the Zaire strain.
The Ebola fragments won’t, or shouldn’t, cause infection; vaccines work on the same principle used when investigators give a police dog an item of clothing to track the smell of a suspect. The virus fragment is meant to be just enough to help the immune system identify the real culprit when it invades.
Private companies have been working on clinical trial plans for Ebola treatments, but at least two of them have been interrupted recently. Sarepta Therapeutics of Cambridge, MA (NASDAQ: SRPT) scotched plans in 2012 for a Phase 1 trial after a stop-work order, and Vancouver, BC-based Tekmira Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: TKMR) had its Phase 1 trial placed on hold by the FDA before the agency reconsidered. Earlier this month, the company said the FDA might allow use of the drug in infected people because of the seriousness of the current outbreak.
Meanwhile, San Diego biotech company Mapp Biopharmaceutical has never formally tested its ZMapp treatment in people, but three Western aid workers who were infected in West Africa were administered doses and flown back to their home countries.
Two of them, both Americans, survived and are no longer in the hospital. The third, a Spaniard, did not survive.

				    Alex Lash is Xconomy's National Biotech Editor. He is based in San Francisco.     				Follow @alexlash 


					Share or Leave a Comment
				

            Reprints
          

            E-mail
          

						+1
					


						Twitter
					


						LinkedIn
					

						Facebook
					

						Hacker News
					
Comment









Related Posts
Colorado Company Gets $2.9M Grant to Develop Test for Ebola Virus
An Intriguing Program Takes on Tropical Diseases—But Not Ebola
Alnylam’s Ebola Work Gets $7.5 Million Commitment
Feds Provide Funding, Expertise to Advance ZMapp Drug for Ebola
As Virus Spreads to U.S., Tekmira CEO Answers Ebola Questions
 


By posting a comment, you agree to our terms and conditions.






 

 



Underwriters and Partners














				Xconomy Events Across the Network
			


					The Healthcare Summit 2014				

Boston · 11/18/1410:00 am - 3:45 pm            

				More Xconomy Events
			



				Connect with Xconomy
			





























					Xconomy on Demand
				


						Did you miss something? Don't despair…
					


					Xconomy offers a number of ways to subscribe for free!


						Subscribe Now
					





























 



Home
Privacy/DMCA
About
Contact Us
Archives
Advertise
Subscribe for Free



	Business, life sciences, and technology news — covering Boston, Seattle, San Diego, Detroit, San Francisco, New York, Raleigh-Durham, Boulder/Denver, Texas, Wisconsin and beyond.
	
© 2007-2014, Xconomy, Inc.
		Xconomy is a registered service mark of Xconomy, Inc.
		All rights reserved.
	

	  Website development support from Andrew Koyfman with design support from Rob Hunter.
  
































