Infected Ebola patient being flown to Atlanta: Are health authorities risking a U.S. outbreak? - NaturalNews.comInfected Ebola patient being flown to Atlanta: Are health authorities risking a U.S. outbreak? - NaturalNews.com






Español      Mobile Site

Home      Subscribe
(free)      About
NaturalNews      Contact
Us      Write
for NaturalNews      Media
Info      Advertising
Info











































CDC endangering America
Five Ebola lies
Top 10 Ebola preps to do NOW
Nature's antivirals revealed
CDC scientist confesses to vaccine fraud


































Infected Ebola patient being flown to Atlanta: Are health authorities risking a U.S. outbreak?

Friday, August 01, 2014by Mike Adams, the Health RangerTags: Ebola victim, air transport, continental USA










Most Viewed Articles

Today | Week | Month | Year

The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
WHO finally admits sneezing and coughing can spread Ebola
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Huh? Ebola vaccine not being tested against Ebola
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
How to construct an emergency Ebola isolation room in your own home after the hospitals are overrun
Amaranth: a gluten-free grain rich in protein and minerals
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
NIH pushing to vaccinate entire countries with Ebola vaccine
Dry skin brushing can strengthen immunity, spark detoxification and reverse the hands of time
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Three medicinal mushrooms that are proven to fight disease
FDA approves experimental use of antiviral drug for Ebola, but still won't allow testing with colloidal silver or Echinacea



The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
Ebola spreads in Dallas hospital as health worker contracts deadly virus; CDC blames victim
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Flu shot facts for those considering the vaccinations
CDC now endangering all Americans by pushing five irresponsible assumptions about Ebola transmission
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The real Ebola risk to the USA is from uncontrolled outbreaks in Central and South America, not direct flights from Africa
The candida depression connection - How yeast leads to depression, anxiety, ADHD, and other mental disorders
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Packs of wild dogs spread Ebola after eating corpses
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Move over white noise: pink noise may help people sleep more soundly



The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Water rationing hits California: limit of 50 gallons per person per day or face fines of $500
Russia completes dry run of nuclear bombing attack on America
Do these ten pieces of evidence prove the U.S. government is actively encouraging an Ebola outbreak in America?
The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Governments seize colloidal silver being used to treat Ebola patients, says advocate
U.S. government openly admits vaccines are seriously harming children: see the email
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Illegal Immigrants get free education, housing and healthcare for crossing border; Americans get $5,000 fine
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
It's all scripted! Ebola outbreak and impossibly rapid vaccine response clearly scripted; U.S. govt. patented Ebola in 2010 and now owns all victims' blood
Bullet proof immune system - how to not get a cold ever
Pandemic Preparedness: The world's most powerful antiviral herbs and natural medicines revealed in free audio recording
FDA threatens three companies with criminal charges for making Ebola treatment claims (but won't test natural substances against Ebola)
Did Johanna Budwig really cure cancer naturally?
Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine



Six important facts you're not being told about lost Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
The lemon detox diet - a recipe that really works
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 now clearly a government cover-up: All evidence contradicts official story
10 health benefits of cucumbers
Why Walmart and Costco shrimp prices are so low - and why you should never buy from them again
Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property
Vitamin D deficiency symptoms explained: the top 9 warning signs
Six signs you might have gluten sensitivity and not know it
Does green tea have caffeine?  Seven things you need to know
Top six alkaline foods to eat every day for vibrant health
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
What the media isn't telling you about Elliott Rodger, the psycho killer who murdered six in a soulless rampage
Flight 370 passengers may still be alive; 'pirated' Boeing 777 may return to skies as stealth nuclear weapon
Plants won't grow near Wi-Fi routers, experiment finds
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Boost Low White Blood Cell Count and Immune Function Naturally


Popular on Facebook










The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media






White House admits staging fake vaccination operation to gather DNA from the public






Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'






EXCLUSIVE: Natural News tests flu vaccine for heavy metals, finds 25,000 times higher mercury level than EPA limit for water






Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?






Irrefutable proof we are all being sprayed with poison: 571 tons of toxic lead 'chemtrailed' into America's skies every year






Truvia sweetener a powerful pesticide; scientists shocked as fruit flies die in less than a week from eating GMO-derived erythritol






Russia taking McDonald's to court, threatens countrywide shutdown






Senator who attacked Doctor Oz over dietary supplements received over $146,000 in campaign contributions from Big Pharma mega-retailer and Monsanto






Global warming data FAKED by government to fit climate change fictions






Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property






Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine






HOAX confirmed: Michelle Obama 'GMOs for children' campaign a parody of modern agricultural politics






Ebola outbreak may already be uncontrollable; Monsanto invests in Ebola treatment drug company as pandemic spreads






Ben & Jerry's switches to non-GMO, Fair Trade ice cream ingredients






Elliot Rodger, like nearly all young killers, was taking psychiatric drugs (Xanax)






BREAKING: CDC whistleblower confesses to MMR vaccine research fraud in historic public statement






Right to farm being stripped from Americans: Michigan to criminalize small family farms with chickens, goats, honey bees and more





















Tweet


Pin It




















(NaturalNews) A patient infected with Ebola is being flown into the United States to be held for medical examination and treatment at Emory University in Atlanta, reports The Guardian. (1) "Emory University Hospital in Atlanta is set to receive a patient infected with the deadly Ebola disease currently sweeping through swaths of west Africa," the paper reports. The patient is reportedly one of the American doctors who was recently infected with the disease.This event will make the first time in history that a level-4 biohazard infectious agent is being transported by air into a large U.S. city while still multiplying inside a living patient. This startling revelation brings up all sorts of questions that range from the gullibly hopeful to the impossibly sinister. Here are some of the thoughts going through people's minds on this right now:Thought #1) HUH? Why are they bringing an infected Ebola patient into the USA? Do they want to start a pandemic here?Thought #2) Hooray for Emory! They are reaching out to save the life of a brave American doctor!Thought #3) They are going to use this guy as a human guinea pig to run medical experiments on him, hoping to produce a profitable treatment for Ebola.Thought #4) This is commendable! There's simply better medical care in the USA and medical professionals want to save this doctor's life.Thought #5) At what risk? Isn't transporting an infected patient by air, even in a private aircraft, just begging for a pandemic outbreak across the United States? Doesn't this risk the lives of 300 million people?Thought #6) The Department of Defense needs the body so they can harvest newer strains of Ebola as part of their viral weaponization program.Save the doctor!Personally, I tend to think there are multiple layers of agendas happening here all at the same time. At the most basic level, front-line doctors and medical scientists simply want to save their colleague, and they likely believe bringing him back to the USA offers him the best chance of survival.At the same time, we cannot refute the fact that there are drug company profit interests at stake in all this. The worse the Ebola problem becomes, the more money can be made from future Ebola vaccines or anti-viral treatment drugs. We already know one company called Tekmira has already been awarded a $140m contract by the Department of Defense for its Ebola drug development program.At an even spookier level, we also know that Ebola is one of the most easily weaponized viruses on the planet. We also know the U.S. Department of Defense has already developed weaponized strains of Ebola and keeps them supercooled in a level-4 biohazard facility somewhere. This is justified on the grounds of "national defense," of course, just in case the survival of the nation one day depends on deploying a global killer virus on enemy territory, I suppose.You can bet blood samples from this patient will be shared with Pentagon virologists, just in case it's some new strain with a mutation that makes it an even better bioweapon than what the military already has.At what risk?Nobody argues with the compassionate idea of saving the life of an American doctor. The man put his life on the line for others, and he deserves our best efforts to save his. My prayers are with him as he struggles to overcome this terrible disease.At the same time, we must all very carefully consider the risks associated with intentionally bringing Ebola into the USA, transporting it across a large body of water in which the virus could never survive on its own. By transporting this patient into North America, U.S. health authorities may have just followed the steps the virus "wanted" them to follow.What happens if someone makes a mistake during this patient transfer and the virus gets loose? The proof that mistakes can happen even among well-meaning doctors is readily apparent in the fact that this well-meaning doctor sadly became infected himself. He obviously did not intend to become infected with Ebola. Thus, even medically-trained personnel can and will underestimate the ability of this Ebola strain to spread.What happens if there is an air transport accident? Suppose the jet experiences a critical flight systems failure and barrel rolls into the forests of Georgia? The chance of this happening may seem very, very small but it is not zero. And if it happens, then suddenly we have Ebola on the loose in Georgia, possibly spreading across the streets of Atlanta.What happens if a terrorist organization operating inside U.S. borders stages some sort of raid or attack on the Emory University isolation room for the sole purpose of acquiring (and then deploying) Ebola as a bioweapon? Is this doctor's room going to be guarded by Special Forces teams to prevent this? What security will exist around this patient?What happens if this Ebola victim infects others at Emory University who are working on him or near him? Surely there will be blood draws taking place, and blood draws and IVs involve sharp objects. Sharp objects pierce protective gloves and clothing. One little prick from a needle is all it takes for a full-blown infection to occur, and yes it has happened many times in the past with a variety of infectious agents.Obviously, infectious disease experts are going to be extremely careful with this patient and everything he comes into contact with, but 100% containment is impossible to achieve. You might achieve 99.999% containment or even better, but the physical process of moving a doctor from an aircraft into a hospital isolation room involves a level of risk which is greater than zero. No one can honestly say there is zero chance of an Ebola outbreak occurring from this situation, because "zero" isn't a valid concept when Ebola is at your doorstep.Why not send the medical teams to the patient instead?Why are U.S. health authorities not sending U.S. medical teams to the infected patient instead of bringing the infected patient to America? This is not an irrational question. Why not give this doctor the advanced treatment he deserves and keep Ebola a continent away at the same time?These are questions we should all be seriously asking right now as the future of all our lives may be impacted by these decisions. Ebola is nothing to play around with, and over-confidence in dealing with Ebola can be fatal to a great many people.Remember, this particular strain of Ebola has already overwhelmed the full government resources of several countries in West Africa. Doctors who were fully versed in safety measures involving biohazards underestimated their own exposure and allowed themselves to become infected. This virus has already shown an ability to out-maneuver a surprising number of health experts, including one of the world's top Ebola doctors who died from the disease earlier this week. Now, Emory University infectious disease experts are bringing this virus to the continental United States, and the rest of us can only sit back and hope they haven't grossly underestimated the ability of this virus to leap from victim to victim.Because if they're wrong, it's not just a simple matter of a doctor making another mistake: it's something that could place all our lives at risk by subjecting us to a deadly pandemic with a horrifyingly high fatality rate of 50 - 90 percent. (Interestingly, the high fatality rate actually works against the virus because it causes victims to die so quickly that they don't live long enough to spread it around. A more "successful" virus would have a much lower fatality rate of around 5% coupled with very long incubation times in infected carriers.)The recent discovery of loose smallpox vials in CDC labs doesn't exactly give me confidence in the government's ability to handle infectious disease agents in a safe manner. As Natural News previously reported: (2)The virus was stored recklessly in six glass vials inside a cardboard box. It was previously thought that this pathogen, "one of the most virulent infectious diseases" known to mankind, was kept only in two places, one at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and the other at the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology (VECTOR) in Novosibirsk, Russia.If you're looking for solutions for preventing Ebola infections, check out this article on Chinese Medicine formulas for treating "hot blood" pandemics.Sources for this article include:(1) http://www.theguardian.com/society/2014/jul/...(2) http://www.naturalnews.com/045989_smallpox_v...(3) http://www.naturalnews.com/046259_Ebola_outb...(4) http://www.naturalnews.com/046260_Ebola_natu...













Join over four million monthly readers. Your privacy is protected. Unsubscribe at any time.





More news on Ebola victim
Ebola victim who received experimental ZMapp drug dies of EbolaTwenty-one questions about Ebola: government propaganda, medical corruption and bioweapons experimentsW.H.O. says it's okay for drug companies to conduct medical experiments on Ebola patientsMedical martial law declared in Sierra Leone; Ebola victims hunted like fugitives in house-to-house searchesEbola transmission by aerosols confirmed: virus survives for days outside infected hostsMonsanto: The world's poster child for corporate manipulation and deceitGuatemalan STD medical experiments were just one crime in a long history of medical-government collusion to use humans as guinea pigs






About the author:Mike Adams (aka the "Health Ranger") is the founding editor of NaturalNews.com, the internet's No. 1 natural health news website, now reaching 7 million unique readers a month.

In late 2013, Adams launched the Natural News Forensic Food Lab, where he conducts atomic spectroscopy research into food contaminants using high-end ICP-MS instrumentation. With this research, Adams has made numerous food safety breakthroughs such as revealing rice protein products imported from Asia to be contaminated with toxic heavy metals like lead, cadmium and tungsten. Adams was the first food science researcher to document high levels of tungsten in superfoods. He also discovered over 11 ppm lead in imported mangosteen powder, and led an industry-wide voluntary agreement to limit heavy metals in rice protein products to low levels by July 1, 2015.

In addition to his lab work, Adams is also the (non-paid) executive director of the non-profit Consumer Wellness Center (CWC), an organization that redirects 100% of its donations receipts to grant programs that teach children and women how to grow their own food or vastly improve their nutrition. Click here to see some of the CWC success stories.

With a background in science and software technology, Adams is the original founder of the email newsletter technology company known as Arial Software. Using his technical experience combined with his love for natural health, Adams developed and deployed the content management system currently driving NaturalNews.com. He also engineered the high-level statistical algorithms that power SCIENCE.naturalnews.com, a massive research resource now featuring over 10 million scientific studies.

Adams is well known for his incredibly popular consumer activism video blowing the lid on fake blueberries used throughout the food supply. He has also exposed "strange fibers" found in Chicken McNuggets, fake academic credentials of so-called health "gurus," dangerous "detox" products imported as battery acid and sold for oral consumption, fake acai berry scams, the California raw milk raids, the vaccine research fraud revealed by industry whistleblowers and many other topics. 

Adams has also helped defend the rights of home gardeners and protect the medical freedom rights of parents. Adams is widely recognized to have made a remarkable global impact on issues like GMOs, vaccines, nutrition therapies, human consciousness.

In addition to his activism, Adams is an accomplished musician who has released ten popular songs covering a variety of activism topics.

Click here to read a more detailed bio on Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, at HealthRanger.com.








Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus


Take Action: Support NaturalNews.com by linking back to this article from your website

Permalink to this article:
http://www.naturalnews.com/046275_Ebola_victim_air_transport_continental_USA.html

Embed article link: (copy HTML code below):
Infected Ebola patient being flown to Atlanta: Are health authorities risking a U.S. outbreak?

Reprinting this article:
Non-commercial use OK, cite NaturalNews.com with clickable link.

Follow Natural News on Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus, and Pinterest






























Advertise with NaturalNews...








Support NaturalNews Sponsors:





















Advertise with NaturalNews...





















GET SHOW DETAILS+ a FREE GIFT































NaturalNews.com

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Us
Contact Us/Feedback
Write for Natural News
Media Information
Advertise Information


Follow Us

Email Newsletter
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
YouTube
Diaspora
Seen
RSS


















This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners. 





































Sign up for the FREE Natural News Email Newsletter

Receive breaking news on GMOs, vaccines, fluoride, radiation protection, natural cures, food safety alerts and interviews with 
the world's top experts on natural health and more.

Join over 7 million monthly readers of NaturalNews.com, the internet's No. 1 natural health news site. (Source: Alexa.com)

Your email address *





Please enter the code you see above*




No Thanks

Already have it and love it!

Natural News supports and helps fund these organizations:




* Required. Once you click submit, we will send you an email asking you to confirm your free registration.
Your privacy is assured and your information is kept confidential. You may unsubscribe at anytime.










