BBC News - Ebola crisis: Speed and extent of outbreak 'unprecedented'BBC News - Ebola crisis: Speed and extent of outbreak 'unprecedented'












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























22 August 2014
Last updated at 18:00 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola crisis: Speed and extent of outbreak 'unprecedented'


Food was distributed in the West Point area of Monrovia, where some residents have expressed anger over a quarantine


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 The World Health Organization has said the speed and extent of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is "unprecedented".
The WHO's Dr Keiji Fukuda expressed concern over so-called "shadow zones", areas which cannot be reached and where patients are not being detected.
The organisation confirmed 142 new cases of the disease had been reported since 19 August, as well as 77 deaths.
Already more people have died in this outbreak of Ebola than in any other.
At least 1,427 people have now died in the outbreak so far, with the number of cases now standing at 2,615.
Speaking at a news conference in the Liberian capital Monrovia, Dr Fukuda said combating the disease would take "several months of hard work".
"We haven't seen an Ebola outbreak covering towns, rural areas so quickly and over such a wide area," he added.
Also on Friday, Nigerian authorities said that they had detected two new cases of the virus, both spouses of medical workers who had direct contact with a man who died from the virus in Nigeria after arriving from Liberia.
In Liberia on Friday, a boy of 16 shot during a protest about a quarantine died.
Shakie Kamara was one of three people seriously injured on Wednesday after security forces fired at protesters, angry after blockades were erected around the West Point slum.


The WHO has said more medical resources are needed to halt the spread of the virus




WHO says Ebola outbreak underestimated because:

 Many families keep sick people at home, as there is no cure
 Many health centres have closed because medical staff have fled
 In Liberia, treatment centres are overwhelmed
 The existence of "shadow-zones", areas where there are reports of Ebola but which cannot be accessed because of local resistance or lack of staff
 Read more from the WHO



Meanwhile, Senegal has defended the closure of its border with Guinea because of the Ebola outbreak, despite warnings that such measures are counterproductive.
The WHO says travel bans do not work, and that what is needed is more doctors and officials to help trace those infected with Ebola, and more mobile laboratories.
Senegal also banned flights and ships from Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone - the three worst-hit countries - however, Senegal's Health Minister Dr Awa Marie Colle Seck said humanitarian flights would not be affected.
Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Kenya and South Africa have also imposed travel bans.
Ebola has no known cure but some affected people have recovered after being given an experimental drug, ZMapp. However, supplies are now exhausted.
On Thursday, two US doctors were discharged from hospital after being given the drug, while three Liberian medics are also recovering well.



Ebola Virus Disease (EVD)


Fruit bats are believed to be a major carrier of the Ebola virus but do not show symptoms


 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but current outbreak has mortality rate of about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats, a delicacy for some West Africans, are considered to be virus's natural host







More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch














Related Internet links


World Health Organization




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top stories



Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards


Global shares slide on growth fears


Reeva's death 'end of the world'


BBC website blocked in China









Features & Analysis




Diet U-turn

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  




Fighting for justice

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss  	
				  




Rich list

If Black America were a country, where would it rank globally? 	
				  




Bible Belt ballot

The place where country music and abortion don't mix 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Second Texas Ebola case announced



3: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



4: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



5: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



3: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



4: Why is the US Navy practising for war with China?



5: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



6: Dutch bikers join fight against IS



7: Girl meets Hillary Clinton, freaks out



8: Giant kangaroo 'walked on two feet' 



9: US spy Greenglass's death revealed



10: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



Video/Audio




1: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



3: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



4: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



5: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



6: In 60 seconds: What is Ebola? Watch



7: How does Ebola attack human cells? Watch



8: Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo unveiled Watch



9: Drunken hovercraft landing on CCTV Watch



10: On board USS George Washington Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Unexpected oasis

Crime plagues other parts of Honduras, but not this colourful utopian island











Programmes



Click Watch

The Russian artist who plays music on his arm through a barcode tattoo






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    








