Blog | Wellbody AllianceBlog | Wellbody Alliance






Menu
WellBody Alliance


news
events
financials
contact





Story

Where We Work
Who We Are
Dr. Barrie's Story
Vision and Mission
Core Beliefs



Power in Partnership

Community
Exchange
Our Partners



Our Work

Clinical Care
Community Care
Sustaining Care


Blog





Search


DONATE

Facebook
Twitter
YouTube








Paul Farmer: "Why I Support Wellbody Alliance"
August 21 2014


	 

	 

	 

Dear Wellbody Alliance Supporters,

In late June, I traveled to Sierra Leone for a conference on surgical care in impoverished countries. The point of having the meeting in Freetown, when an Ebola epidemic was already underway, was not to argue that safe surgical care was somehow a more significant challenge than the burgeoning epidemic, but rather that responding to both sets of problems requires "staff, systems, and stuff." They also require a public health capacity that was badly weakened in parts of West Africa scarred by both poverty and war.

As Ebola sweeps across West Africa, it is clear that these health systems, only now being rebuilt (and in rural regions, built for the first time) are crumbling under the burden of this epidemic, the world's largest to date. Doctors and nurses are not only without the stuff and staff they need, but also, and not unreasonably, frightened, since many have sickened and died; some have abandoned their posts. Fear and panic have been documented across the region most affected. Poorly-equipped isolation wards have become known simply as "the place where you go to die."

The Ebola outbreak is thus a public health and humanitarian catastrophe. When disasters strike under-resourced, fragile healthcare systems, the human consequences of gaps in care—again, shortages of staff and equipment, and poor or absent infrastructure, including clean and well-equipped isolation facilities—are amplified. Hundreds of people have died of Ebola in Sierra Leone alone, as health workers—including many from Wellbody Alliance—scramble to coordinate a response; an even larger number are likely dying in their homes of more readily treated diseases and injuries because hospitals and clinics have shut down, and because patients are afraid to seek help in settings with inadequate infection control and far too little care on offer.

Now more than ever is the time to invest in and develop an effective healthcare system to save lives, quell the epidemic and prevent future outbreaks from spiraling out of control. These are of course the very systems that can improve care for other problems, including surgical care (there’s only one surgical nurse in Freetown’s chief public hospital).

There is no doubt that this epidemic can and will only be stopped when we ensure that health workers, including those in rural regions, have access to enough personal protective equipment (and training in barrier nursing and infection control) and that treatment centers are well-stocked with medication and supplies. 



Affected communities must also be engaged with respect, empathy, and compassion in order to restore trust in the healthcare system and to ease the process of painful separations (sometimes permanent) as Ebola patients are sent to isolation wards to contain the diease.

Wellbody Alliance’s approach reflects these essential components of a robust and effective response to Ebola. The organization is playing a pivotal role in bringing supplies into Sierra Leone and distributing them to the most affected clinical outposts. And relying on a deep understanding of what patients in Sierra Leone seek in their healthcare, Wellbody’s staff is treating patients not simply as disease vectors but as sick individuals in desperate need of expert compassion—and of respect. Wellbody is working to prepare Kono District—the most impoverished region of the country—to contain the disease should it reach the district, and to help scale up this pragmatic and respectful response nationwide.

I’m familiar with Wellbody’s leadership and have valued the organization’s committed and impassioned social-justice approach to health systems development since its founding, and am proud to support the Wellbody Alliance during this trying and frightening time.


Please join me in supporting their efforts by clicking here.

	Sincerely,


	Dr. Paul Farmer, MD, PhD

	Professor and Chair, Department of Global Health and Social Medicine, Harvard University
Chief Strategist and Co-Founder, Partners in Health
 

Related tags:
    			Ebola, Partners in Health, Paul Farmer
  			


« EMERGENCY UPDATE: Ebola Virus is in Kono District
    			
    			
    				| Ebola outbreak has left Sierra Leone desperate for health care resources  »




FOR REAL-TIME UPDATESON CLINIC NEWS, WELLBODY EVENT UPDATES, AND WAYS TO GET INVOLVED:





SEND!

Something may have gone wrong
Thank you! We'll be in touch!


DONATE




 



© Company 2012. All rights reserved. WellBody Alliance is a 501(c)3 organization

news
events
financials
contact




















