Battling Ebola in West Africa: 5 Key Challenges | Atmospherics UnlimitedBattling Ebola in West Africa: 5 Key Challenges | Atmospherics Unlimited








Call:

+1 866 972 7687 (US)

+44 330 828 0060 (UK) 

+356 2778 0977 (EU) 



Home
About Us
Blog
Contact





Security Consulting

Physical Security Advisory
Risk Management
Crisis Management


Information Services

Geopolitical Analysis
Research Projects


Strategic Communications
Project Facilitation

Project Monitoring & Evaluation
Travel Facilitation
Human Resources
Training


Hostile Areas

Afghanistan
Somalia
Yemen
Syria
Emerging Markets & Volatile Areas


 













Home > Blog > Happening Now > Battling Ebola in West Africa: 5 Key Challenges				



Battling Ebola in West Africa: 5 Key Challenges


A significant increase in humanitarian assistance to combat the West African Ebola outbreak appears to be coming soon to the worst hit countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea.  The United States has pledged up to $500 million and a 3,000-strong troop deployment to Liberia, which has reported the highest infection rates in the region.  The Atmospherics Unlimited team has a lot of experience in West Africa, so we asked ourselves: what are the main socio-cultural, security, and health safety challenges that need to be overcome by local and international health workers to effectively battle the Ebola virus?  Here are our 5 top concerns:
1.  Local Mistrust of the Government
Even at the best of times, mistrust and disdain for government officials and institutions is widespread among the local populations of West Africa due to the high levels of corruption and nepotism throughout the region.
A Mother Jones article details the consequences this mistrust, as civil unrest has hampered government efforts to combat the disease:
            In Sierra Leone, crowds of people pelted a government hospital and police station in July on the heels of a rumor that Ebola was a lie invented to collect body parts.  In Liberia, a riot broke out in August after the government quarantined a squatter settlement in Monrovia, the nation’s capitol, that was home to tens of thousands of people.  Amidst the chaos, the police shot and killed a 15-year-old boy. (The quarantine was lifted after 10 days.) Also in August, more than 50 people were injured in riots in Guinea’s second-largest city after health workers disinfected a market without notice.
It should be noted that this mistrust extends to foreigners, who locals often believe have been brought into their country by their local government for some nefarious purpose.  This is perhaps why the United States decided to send in the military, as they expect some encounters with locals to turn violent. 
A peanut seller in a Sierra Leone Market. Many in West Africa earn less than $1 per day.Image Copyright 2014 Atmospherics Unlimited
2.  Cultural Practices, Religious Beliefs, and Poor Education
This trifecta may account for why the virus has spread so quickly throughout the region.  In a region with low education and literacy rates, attempts to teach good health and hygiene practices and educate locals on preventing the spread of disease are often stymied by local cultural practices and beliefs.  While most of West Africa’s populations identify their religion as either Christian or Muslim, traditional beliefs and practices are still a big influence and faith that witchcraft, sorcery, and various other types of “juju” can cure the sick is extremely common.  These factors seem to have played a major part in a recent lethal attack on a health education team in Guinea that killed 5 health workers and 3 journalists, and also on a foiled attack against a burial team in Sierra Leone a few days later.
3.  Poverty
It is difficult to understate the level of grinding poverty experienced by the vast majority of West Africans.  Decades of civil war and unrest have left their economies in an extremely fragile state.  Unemployment, under-employment, lack of education, government corruption, and rising food costs are some of the elements that contribute to Liberians, for example, earning less than $1 per day on average.
In one of the most horrifying examples of just how desperately poor the population is, residents from the West Point slum in Liberia’s capital of Monrovia looted an Ebola treatment center in August 2014, stealing everything that could be carried off – including soiled bed sheets and clothing.
Due to the extreme poverty levels, food security is a major problem in the region in ordinary times, but the problem is being further exacerbated by rising food costs due to the border shutdowns that have become necessary to contain the disease.  As the Ebola crisis continues, the threat of famine grows ever larger.
4.  Lack of Infrastructure
West Africa has some of the most poorly developed health infrastructure of any region in the world.  There simply are not enough beds, medical centers, and healthcare personnel in the area to accommodate both the Ebola-infected populations and carry on routine treatments of other injuries and illnesses.
Additionally, lack of developed roadways and other infrastructure in the region means that simply getting to remote areas to distribute protective gear and medications, and conduct health education is a daunting task.
It is anticipated that the U.S. troop deployment is meant to counter some of these issues in Liberia, where military engineers are expected to build a number of new field hospitals and assist with training thousands of new health care workers.
A rural village in Sierra Leone. Many villages such as this in West Africa are extremely difficult to reach due to poor road infrastructure.Image copyright 2014 – Atmospherics Unlimited
5.  Other Health Threats
Additionally, as mentioned above, because health centers are overwhelmed with Ebola patients, those suffering from other illnesses such as malaria, dysentery, etc. may die in larger numbers because they cannot access treatment or are too scared to seek help because of the Ebola threat.  A parallel epidemic of something like meningitis, which killed over 10,000 in the region in 1996, would completely overwhelm the health infrastructure, leading to numerous additional non-Ebola illnesses and deaths to contend with.
 
For further information that can help you make sense of the security situation and other ground realities in your country or region of operation, email:
info@atmosphericsunlimited.com
Or call us at: 
+1 866 972 7687 (US)
 +44 330 828 0060 (UK)
 +356 2778 0977 (EU)
 
 
 












Posted on September 22, 2014  by  admin 

		This entry was posted in Happening Now, Safety & Security and tagged Ebola, Ebola Outbreak, Guinea, health and safety, Liberia, Monrovia, Security, Sierra Leone, West Africa by admin. Bookmark the permalink.		
			









 

Blog Categories 
Company News

Global Travel

Happening Now

Press

Safety & Security

Special Series on Refugees and Irregular Migrants

Special Somalia Coverage

What We're Reading


Latest Posts

Part 2: Refugees, Asylum Seekers and Irregular Migrants

This second part of our ongoing special blog series covering Refugees, Asylum Seekers, and Irregular Migrants explores some of the safety and security concerns that have arisen due to an increase in irregular migration within the United States, European Union, and Australia. Read more → 



Part 1: Special Series on Refugees and Irregular Migrants

This part of our special blog series covering Refugees, Asylum Seekers, and Irregular Migrants seeks to very briefly define the terms and then explore a few of the more complicating factors that affect the receiving countries. Read more → 



Introduction: Refugees, Asylum Seekers, and Irregular Migrants

This blog series examines the reasons behind the increase and the affects on the migrants, their home countries, the transit areas, and the receiving countries. Read more → 



Somali Government Security Threatened by al Shabaab Attack

The window of opportunity for the Somali National Government to capitalize on the international goodwill and readiness to assist President Mohamud’s fledgling administration appears to be closing quickly. Read more → 



Archives  Select Month  September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 February 2014 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 

 





IndexSecurity Consulting
Project Facilitation
Information Services
Strategic Communications
Stay ConnectedAbout AU
Our Blog
Key Markets
FooterContact Us
Sitemap
Legal Notices
Social Icons Stay Connected







 
 Call:
+1 866 972 7687 (US)
+44 330 828 0060 (UK)
+356 2778 0977 (EU)
© 2014 Atmospherics Unlimited. All Rights Reserved.





