Tracking the Ebola outbreak in near real-time: HealthMap, ProMED and other tools — VectorTracking the Ebola outbreak in near real-time: HealthMap, ProMED and other tools — Vector




Home
About
Bloggers
Want to blog?
Print Archives
 Vector
Boston Children's Hospital's science and clinical innovation blog


Home
About
Bloggers
Print Archives








Tracking the Ebola outbreak in near real-time: HealthMap, ProMED and other tools
by Tom Ulrich on August 7, 2014




This interactive map of the Ebola outbreak, produced by HealthMap, paints a picture of the epidemic's course from its first public signs in March. Mouse around, scroll down, zoom and explore. And click play to see how events have unfolded thus far.

Sobering news keeps coming out of the West African Ebola outbreak. According to numbers released on August 6, the virus has sickened 1,711 and claimed 932 lives across four nations. The outbreak continues to grow, with a high risk of continued regional spread, according to a threat analysis released by HealthMap (an outbreak tracking system operated out of Boston Children’s Hospital) and Bio.Diaspora (a Canadian project that monitors communicable disease spread via international travel).
“What we’ve seen here—because of inadequate public health measures, because of general fear—is [an outbreak that] truly hasn’t been kept under control,” John Brownstein, PhD, co-founder of HealthMap and a computational epidemiologist at Boston Children’s Hospital, told ABC News. “The event started, calmed down and jumped up again. Now, we’re seeing movement into densely populated areas, which is highly concerning.”
If you’re interested in keeping tabs on the outbreak yourself, there are several tools that can help.

HealthMap’s Ebola map. The HealthMap team is maintaining a dedicated, interactive map and timeline of the epidemic at healthmap.org/ebola (embedded at the top of this post). Both map and timeline are regularly updated as new information becomes available, as is the HealthMap Twitter account.
ProMED. The International Society for Infectious Disease, a non-profit organization for infectious and emerging disease research, operates ProMED, a disease news monitoring service that tracks outbreaks of human and veterinary infectious diseases. ProMED (short for Program for Monitoring Emerging Diseases) has been sending out regular email and Twitter alerts about the Ebola outbreak since it was first noticed in March.
US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The CDC is regularly posting updated news and patient counts—as well as travel and preparedness guidance and other information about the virus—on both their website and Twitter.
World Health Organization (WHO). The WHO’s Global Alert and Response system is providing regular updates on disease spread and control efforts. The organization is also distributing updates via its Twitter feed.

 

Tagged as:
						digital disease detection, 
						digital epidemiology, 
						Ebola, 
						HealthMap

Leave a comment 





Tweet







Related posts:
Tweeting and more for public health: Q&A with a digital disease detective
Tracking vaccine misconceptions–by mining online data
Healthy Olympics 2012: Disease surveillance and mass gathering medicine
Tweeting in the time of cholera
Digital disease detection: Public health by the “web kids”









Previous post: Digital health: The next blockbuster
Next post: Bhutta: $13 ‘nonsense’ innovation makes a huge impact




 








Search







Subscribe via email 


For real-time updates, enter your email address:



Vector Buzz 
Tweets about "vectorblog"


 Thriving blog postsJasper and the unwelcome party guest: An unforgettable appendicitis experienceRemembering one of Boston Children’s earliest liver transplants8 common child health myths bustedClearing up the confusion about Enterovirus D68 and paralysisImproving the health and daily lives of children with asthma 
 








Featured topics 
All Posts

Devices

Diagnostics

Drug discovery

Ethics and policy

Global health

Information technology

Innovators' stories

Market trends

Orphan diseases

Pediatrics

Personalized medicine

Regenerative medicine

TEDMED

Uncategorized


Sites we like 
Boston Children’s Hospital
Technology and Innovation Development Office at Boston Children’s
Innovation Acceleration Program at Boston Children’s
The Stem Cell Program at Boston Children’s
Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine @Children’s
HealthMap
CIMIT blog
CommonHealth: Reform And Reality (WBUR.org)
Harvard-MIT Health Sciences and Technology
Gene Therapy Net
ibridge blog
Massachusetts Biotechnology Council
MassDevice
Massachusetts Life Sciences Center
Medgadget Blog
TEDMED
Xconomy
Big Think
Discover Blogs
Guardian Science Blogs
PLoS Blogs
Science Blogs
Sciencetopia
Wired Science Blogs


 

View all upcoming events
Boston Children's Hospital Calendar
Harvard Medical School Calendar


 




Vector is published by Boston Children's Hospital. © Boston Children's Hospital. All rights reserved.
All information provided on diagnosis and therapy reflects the care environment of Boston Children's Hospital and related physician practices. It is not a substitute for the professional judgment of a qualified heath care provider based upon actual examination of a patient's condition and history. Therefore, it should not be construed as medical advice for any particular patient's condition, and may need to be altered in different care environments. Please contact us if we can be helpful in answering any questions or to arrange for a visit or consult.
 WordPress Admin










