Artificial spleen cleans up blood - Scientific AmericanArtificial spleen cleans up blood - Scientific American


ADVERTISEMENT


















Sign In | Register

0




















Subscription Center
Every Issue. Every Year. 1845-Present. 
Save up to 65% when you subscribe today. 
The perfect gift for any holiday or occasion. 


Subscribe to All Access »
Subscribe to Print »
Give a Gift »
View the Latest Issue »















Subscribe



News & Features

Latest Stories
Ask the Experts
Fact or Fiction
Extreme Tech
Features
Forum
In-Depth Reports
Interactive Features
Mind Matters
News
Science Images
Slide shows



Topics

Energy & Sustainability
Evolution
Health
Mind & Brain
Space
Technology
More Science
Biology
Chemistry
Physics
All topics



Blogs

Staff Blogs
MIND Blog Network
From Our Network



Videos & Podcasts

Video
SA's The Countdown
60-Second Science Podcast
60-Second Earth Podcast
60-Second Health Podcast
60-Second Mind Podcast
60-Second Space Podcast
60-Second Tech Podcast
Science Talk Podcast



Education

Science in Action Award
Bring Science Home
Citizen Science
Digital Education Report
Professional Learning
1,000 Scientists in 1,000 Days
Search for Scientists/Educators
Scientist Sign Up
Educator Sign Up
Participant Dashboard
Education Resources



Citizen Science

Whale-Song Project
Solve Innovation Challenges



SA Magazine






Subscribe
Give as a Gift
Buy Single Issues



Inside the Latest Issue

Features
Advances
50, 100 & 150 Years Ago
Anti Gravity
Forum
Graphic Science
The Science Agenda
The Science of Health
Skeptic
TechnoFiles
Recommended
Archive
Special Editions




More from SA:






Classics







Briefings







Mobile








SA Mind






Subscribe
Give as a Gift
Buy Single Issues



SA Mind Home Page
SA Mind Blog Network
Inside the Latest Issue

Features
Head Lines
Ask the Brains
Consciousness Redux
Facts and Fictions in Mental Health
Illusions
Mind in Pictures
Perspectives
We're Only Human
Reviews and Recommendations
Archive
Special Editions





Books

SA/FSG Books
Scientific American eBooks



























Health

»



Nature






Email


Print







This article is from the In-Depth Report

Ebola: What You Need to Know





Artificial Spleen Cleans Ebola from Blood


The newly developed device improves survival in rats after severe infections with everything from E. coli to Ebola







September 14, 2014
|By Sara Reardon and Nature magazine
















Staphylococcus aureus
Credit: Harvard’s Wyss Institute




Researchers have developed a high-tech method to rid the body of infections — even those caused by unknown pathogens. A device inspired by the spleen can quickly clean blood of everything from Escherichia coli to Ebola, researchers report on September 14 in Nature Medicine.
Blood infections can be very difficult to treat, and can lead to sepsis, an often-fatal immune response. More than 50% of the time, physicians cannot diagnose the cause of an infection that has prompted sepsis, and so they resort to antibiotics that attack a broad range of bacteria. This approach is not always effective, and can lead to antibiotic resistance in bacteria.
In search of a way to clear any infection, a team led by Donald Ingber, a bioengineer at the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering in Boston, Massachusetts, developed an artificial 'biospleen' to filter blood.
The device uses a modified version of mannose-binding lectin (MBL), a protein found in humans that binds to sugar molecules on the surfaces of more than 90 different bacteria, viruses and fungi, as well as to the toxins released by dead bacteria that trigger the immune overreaction in sepsis.
The researchers coated magnetic nanobeads with MBL. As blood enters the biospleen device, passes by the MBL-equipped nanobeads, which bind to most pathogens. A magnet on the biospleen device then pulls the beads and their quarry out of the blood, which can then be routed back into the patient.
Spleen screen
To test the device, Ingber and his team infected rats with either E. coli or Staphylococcus aureus and filtered blood from some of the animals through the biospleen. Five hours after infection, 89% of the rats whose blood had been filtered were still alive, compared with only 14% of those that were infected but not treated. The researchers found that the device had removed more than 90% of the bacteria from the rats' blood. The rats whose blood had been filtered also had less inflammation in their lungs and other organs, suggesting they would be less prone to sepsis.
The researchers then tested whether the biospleen could handle the volume of blood in an average adult human — about 5 liters. They ran human blood containing a mixture of bacteria and fungi through the biospleen at a rate of 1 liter per hour, and found that the device removed most of the pathogens within five hours.
That degree of efficacy is probably enough to control an infection, Ingber says. Once the biospleen has removed most pathogens from the blood, antibiotics and the immune system can fight off remaining traces of infection — such as pathogens lodged in the organs, he says.
Ingber says that the biospleen could also help to treat viral diseases such as HIV and Ebola, in which survival depends on lowering the amount of virus in the blood to a negligible level. His group is now testing the biospleen on pigs.
Nigel Klein, an infection and immunity expert at University College London, says that the biospleen could also allow diagnosticians to collect samples of a pathogen from the blood and then culture it to identify it and determine what drugs will best treat it. As blood transfusion and filtration are already common practices, he expects that the biospleen could move into human clinical trials within a couple of years.
This article is reproduced with permission and was first published on September 14, 2014.









Share this Article:













Comments


Oldest - Newest
Newest - Oldest




New Comment
You must sign in or register as a ScientificAmerican.com member to submit a comment.
















More from Scientific American

























ADVERTISEMENT







Latest News


Most Read






What's Behind Recent Flurry of Hurricane Activity?






How Did a Dallas Nurse Catch Ebola?






EPA Approves Dow's Enlist Herbicide for GMOs






What’s Your Favorite Vintage Gadget?






Cancer: Winning the War? [Video] - The 64th Annual Lindau Meeting








Strange but True: Drinking Too Much Water Can Kill - Scientific American







The Truth about Genetically Modified Food - Scientific American







Why does lactic acid build up in muscles? And why does it cause soreness? - Scientific American







How Has Stephen Hawking Lived to 70 with ALS? - Scientific American







What Are the 10 Greatest Inventions of Our Time? - Scientific American









Follow Us:





























See what we're tweeting about
Scientific American Contributors



 sciamblogs A Wild Idea: Save Tasmanian Devils While Controlling Killer Cats http://t.co/FQ3xngwrL1
4 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite


 jfischman RT @RichMonastersky: One university's grand experiment in altering the research paradigm. @jfischman investigates #ASU for @NatureNews...
4 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite


 jfischman @debbieponchner De nada.
5 minutes ago · reply · retweet · favorite

More »




Solve Innovation Challenges


Pseudoephedrine #3:  Outsmarting Methamphetamine Producers


Deadline: Nov 20 2014 
Reward: $100,000 USD

 The Seeker desires a method for formulating pseudoephedrine products in such a way that it will be extremely difficult for clandestine c


NIH Single Cell Analysis Challenge: Follow That Cell


Deadline: Dec 15 2014 
Reward: $100,000 USD

 Many biological experiments are performed under the assumption that all cells of a particular “type” are identical. However, recent data


More Challenges »
Powered By: 

ADVERTISEMENT
 


Latest from SA Blog Network


Middle Schoolers Develop App to Help Visually Impaired

Voices|1 hour ago



Wordless Wednesday: #madwriting all the live long day

The Urban Scientist|3 hours ago



Scientific American Online Now Speaks Spanish

STAFF
@ScientificAmerican|6 hours ago



CDC Launches Ebola Response Team

STAFF
Observations|20 hours ago



Quest for Intelligence Genes Churns Out More Dubious Results

Cross-Check|23 hours ago





News From Our Partners



EPA Approves Dow's Enlist Herbicide for GMOs



Cancer: Winning the War? [Video] - The 64th Annual Lindau Meeting



Red Planet Spacecraft Prepare For Rare Comet Encounter



Better Logging Could Slow Global Warming




ADVERTISEMENT


ADVERTISEMENT



Science Jobs of the Week


Postdoc in Cell Signaling in Hematopoetic Stem Cells
Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center



Assistant, Associate or Full Professor
University of Michigan



Certified Genetic Counselor
Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU)



More jobs from Naturejobs.com »








YES! Send me a free issue of Scientific American with no obligation to continue the subscription. If I like it, I will be billed for the one-year subscription.

Subscribe Now



Scientific American is a trademark of Scientific American, Inc., used with permission

© 2014 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc.

View Mobile Site
All Rights Reserved.



Advertise
Special Ad Sections
SA Custom Media and Partnerships
Science Jobs
Partner Network
International Editions
Travel


About Scientific American
Press Room
Site Map
Terms of Use 
Privacy Policy
Use of Cookies


Subscribe
Renew Your Print Subscription
Print Subscriber Customer Service
Buy Back Issues
FAQs
Contact Us











Back to School Sale!


12 Digital Issues + 4 Years of Archive Access just $19.99


Order Now > 

X




Email this Article







Your Name



Your Email Address



Recipient's Email Address (separate multiple addresses with a comma)



Comment (optional)





X























