The Ebola hospital in Liberia that isn’t for Liberians | The Daily VoxThe Ebola hospital in Liberia that isn’t for Liberians | The Daily Vox











 
About Us

Who We Are


In the Media
Contact







 
The Daily Vox Citizen. Speak. Amplify.

 
 

 



Home
Voices
Online Chatter
Photo Essays
Features
Cartoons
Reporters’ Notebooks
Opinion
Satire
Videos
Editorial
 




Home » Features » The Ebola hospital in Liberia that isn’t for Liberians





The Ebola hospital in Liberia that isn’t for Liberians

in  Features
September 10, 2014



The Pentagon is set to build a facility to treat health workers in Liberia. Eighty Liberian health workers have already died from the disease. But the Pentagon’s new facility isn’t for them. It’s for foreign health workers only.
It may seem strange and archaic to reserve a healthcare facility for foreigners only – like labelling a bench  “whites only” – but this is effectively what the Pentagon has done, according to Buzzfeed News.
“The goal is to provide assurance for health workers,” said Nancy Lindborg, the assistant administrator for the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance of US Agency for International Development in a call to journalists. Foreign ones at least.
On Monday, Lindborg told journalists that the facility would cater exclusively for foreign health workers. A press officer confirmed the story to Buzzfeed on Tuesday.
$22 million. The life of a Liberian doctor is worth as much as the life of an American one. Except to the USG. http://t.co/Y4k2A0QZx2
— Laura Seay (@texasinafrica) September 10, 2014

Liberia is currently at the frontline of the Ebola battle, which has already killed 2 228 people. Half of these deaths have come in the past three works, and not even health workers are safe from the disease. That’s where the Pentagon’s $22-million facility comes in.
There are 152 Liberian health workers currently infected with Ebola. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said that conventional control methods, such as protective suits, are not effective in Liberia. The disease has been nearly impossible to contain, and international aid organisations say that the global community has failed in its response to the outbreak.
Health experts are already questioning the infrastructure of the Pentagon’s proposed facility, which is said to contain only 25 beds.
Dr Ian Norton, a coordinator of the foreign medical teams that enter Liberia, told Buzzfeed that field hospitals are “very much surgery oriented; there are a lot of theaters and high intensive care”.
“When Norton was informed by BuzzFeed News about the $22-million, 25-bed facility, he laughed,” writes Buzzfeed journalist, Jina Moore.
While the Pentagon is set to spend $22-million on this single facility, international health aid organisation, Moore says, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) has projected spending $39-million to combat the disease in its entirety this year.
“We don’t need 25 beds. We need 1,000 beds, yesterday,” Sophie Delaunay, executive director of MSF-USA, told Buzzfeed. “If this is the only offer that is going to be practically implemented on the ground, it’s paltry in the face of all the needs.”
The international community has been criticised for its lack of response to the disease, leaving experts on the front lines asking just how important African lives are to the world at large. The Pentagon’s latest move is bound to add to the outrage. Meanwhile West Africans continue to die in numbers.
Read the full story on Buzzfeed.
- Image via MSF/ Sylvain Cherkaoui

aid agencies ebola Liberia MSF Pentagon 2014-09-10
Raeesa Pather



tweet








 


Tagged with: aid agencies ebola Liberia MSF Pentagon
 



Previous: Never mind the girls, #BringBackGoodluck2015
Next: Shopping mall robberies: “I just don’t feel safe.”



About Raeesa Pather 



 

			Ra’eesa is a new kid on the journalism block, having bounded down UCT’s steps at the end of 2013. Words are her playground, and she often spends time swinging them out into blog pieces, articles and the more-than-occasional Tweet. Reality and her various anecdotes are translated through language, and if words be the dictionary of life write on. Preferably with a cup of coffee on the side.		








Don't Miss:





 

The SADC Wrap: Elections, Cashgate and “Dr” Grace Mugabe
2 days ago




 

Life in Gaza after the ceasefire
5 days ago




 

10 reasons why mobile rocks in Africa
5 days ago






Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment  You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 




News in Pictures		



































By Raeesa Pather
 
The predictable regularity of SA’s horror crashes [VIDEO]
How Nigeria shut down Ebola
Chevrolet, football charity and misguided social media outrage
Is Dookoom hating or are people just hating on Dookoom?
Is there a right way to talk about the poverty of black women in South Africa?

 All (107)
 Advertisement
 







 Advertisement
 








 






Subscribe
To RSS Feed





2,213
Followers





1,762
Fans





21
Subscribers





7
Followers





105
Followers




Recently Published		
 




The predictable regularity of SA’s horror crashes [VIDEO]
5 hours ago





How Nigeria shut down Ebola
5 hours ago





When classic literature meets hip hop
10 hours ago





[VIDEO] Shocking footage of 45 car pile up near Alberton
24 hours ago





SAA to introduce virginity testing on Swazi flights
1 day ago





Zuma “wrong and crazy” on victimless corruption
2 days ago





Chevrolet, football charity and misguided social media outrage
2 days ago





The SADC Wrap: Elections, Cashgate and “Dr” Grace Mugabe
2 days ago





Is Dookoom hating or are people just hating on Dookoom?
2 days ago





SA Muslims will have to wait for CAR booty
5 days ago




 






 

			2014 The Daily Vox 			
















