 Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears - FluTrackers Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears - FluTrackers
















Tracking Infectious Diseases since 2006
























FluTrackers.com Inc. 
is a 501(c)(3) charity



















Nederlandse taal
    

Foro de Español de FluTrackers
    

Francophones des FluTrackers
    


Forum Italiano
    


FluTrackers
Latest Posts
    

























 www www.flutrackers.com


























 
FluTrackers
> Emerging Diseases, & Other Health Threats - Alphabetical I thru Z
> World Food Supply - Problem Areas, Cultivation Alternatives, Latest Research



 
	 Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears











User Name

Remember Me?


Password



















Register
FAQ



Donate





Search
Today's Posts
Mark Forums Read




















		
		 
		


Thread Tools


Search this Thread


Display Modes













			 
			#1  
			
			
			
			
			
		



			
				September 19th, 2014, 10:51 AM
			
			
			











Shiloh



Editor, Senior Moderator

 


Join Date: Feb 2008

						Posts: 36,575
					
 













Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears





			
			Source: http://online.wsj.com/articles/cocoa...ars-1411137838


Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears
Concerns Grow Over Possible Disruption of Supply Chain in West Africa

The deadly Ebola virus spreading through West Africa is sparking fears in the market that supplies of cocoa, one of the region's top exports, could be disrupted.

Prices for the key chocolate ingredient have surged by over 6% this week and are closing in on a three-year high on mounting concerns that the outbreak will reach the Ivory Coast or Ghana, which produce about 60% of the world's cocoa. No cases have been reported in either country. But Ivory Coast shares a poorly policed border with Liberia and Guinea, two of the countries hardest hit by Ebola...
		














Shiloh

View Public Profile
Find all posts by Shiloh











			 
			#2  
			
			
			
			
			
		



			
				September 19th, 2014, 11:13 AM
			
			
			










JJackson



Senior Moderator

 


Join Date: Feb 2006
Location: UK

						Posts: 1,869
					
 













Re: Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears






http://www.oecd.org/swac/ourwork/cocoa-childlabour.htm

From WHO roadmap 18 Sept.
		


















JJackson

View Public Profile
Find all posts by JJackson











			 
			#3  
			
			
			
			
			
		



			
				September 19th, 2014, 12:10 PM
			
			
			











Pathfinder



Editor, Senior Moderator

 


Join Date: Aug 2009

						Posts: 25,671
					
 













Re: Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears





Translation Google

Cocoa production is closer to 2 million tons in Ivory Coast

Posted by The Editor | Monday, August 25, 2014

Ivory Coast - Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer, will see its production of this product rise to nearly 1.7 million tonnes for the campaign 2013- 2014, against 1.4 million planned, we learned from official sources.

This increase, announced Friday during the examination of amending the state budget by the National Assembly, is partly due to good rainfall but also to actions by professional organizations in the sector, said the president of Ivorian Federation of the producers of coffee - cocoa (FIPCC), Ibrahim Issa Kone.

To believe Mr. Ibrahim, "there is also the new cocoa varieties that lead to the boom."

Côte d'Ivoire has introduced new orchards with new seeds developed by the National Agricultural Research Centre (NARC), called "Cocoa Mercedes", which have a yield of two tons per hectare against 400 kg per hectare by the old varieties.

On May 20 in Abidjan, large cocoa companies have signed a declaration of intent for the joint implementation of a development plan for the sector, called "Cocoa Action" which is expected to triple production in Côte ivory.

The program aims to fight against the "swollen shoot" disease devastating orchards, and to contribute to improving the living conditions of the Ivorian population with the creation of health centers and schools. The coffee and cocoa, the main natural resource of Côte d'Ivoire, represents nearly 70% of exports of primary products and 15% of GDP.

Ivory Coast provides 36% of world cocoa with 1.3 million tons of beans produced in 2013 

End Xinhua

http://www.connectionivoirienne.net/...n-cote-divoire




				__________________
"Safety and security don't just happen, they are the result of collective consensus and public investment. We owe our children, the most vulnerable citizens in our society, a life free of violence and fear." 
-Nelson Mandela
			














Pathfinder

View Public Profile
Find all posts by Pathfinder










			 
			#4  
			
			
			
			
			
		



			
				September 28th, 2014, 12:44 PM
			
			
			











Pathfinder



Editor, Senior Moderator

 


Join Date: Aug 2009

						Posts: 25,671
					
 













Re: Cocoa Prices Surge on Ebola Fears





Cocoa prices surge on output fears over Ebola outbreak 

September 28, 2014 
AFP 
...
Ebola outbreak threatens producers - COCOA: Prices rocketed to levels last seen in spring 2011 as traders fretted over the deadly Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa, home to most of the world’s production. Over the past fortnight, cocoa prices jumped by about ten percent as fears escalated that the epidemic could spread to top exporters Ghana and Ivory Coast.

The market rallied Thursday to £2,187 per tonne in London and $3,399 per tonne in New York, the highest points for three and a half years. Health systems in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea have been overwhelmed by the epidemic, which has infected more than 6,200 people in west Africa and killed nearly half of them since late last year. “Ebola continues to spread and as it approaches the world’s largest production region of Ivory Coast and Ghana worries of disruptions to supplies have increased,” said Saxo Bank analyst Ole Hansen. “October is a critical month for the cocoa market as it signals the beginning of the harvest. Any disruptions in transportation or labour shortages in the world’s two largest producers could have a significant positive impact on the price.” “As a result of these worries and speculative buyers jumping in, the price reached a 3.5-year high.” The New York market could potentially beat the previous record high of $3,826 per tonne, set in 2011 when Ivory Coast’s civil war sparked major supply disruptions.

“So far neither the Ivory Coast or Ghana .. have had confirmed cases of Ebola ... and both countries have closed their borders with affected countries to try and reduce the threat,” Capital Economics analyst Thomas Pugh told AFP. “However, many of the workers who pick cocoa plants migrate from the affected countries, so supply could be damaged if these migrant workers aren’t around to pick the crop. This is probably contributing to the rise in prices.” Ghana and Ivory Coast account for 60 percent of global cocoa output, while West Africa produces 72 percent of the world’s cocoa. “If these two countries were to be seriously hit by Ebola then prices could soar—maybe double,” Pugh added. “Workers would stay away as much due to people’s fear of crowded places such as work, as from actual deaths from Ebola.” Ecobank analyst Edward George added both nations had a “fragmented” cocoa sector which relied on farmers transporting their own crops in a “disjointed” fashion. “The entire sector is fragmented, we’re talking hundreds of thousands of farmers with plots of one and a half hectares or two hectares,” George told AFP. “All of the buying is disjointed; it’s individuals going around on motorbikes, in cars and trucks buying cocoa. “So if there were an outbreak in this zone you would have to suspend all purchases. Imagine taking 60 percent of the world cocoa off the market at the beginning of the season—you could see a dramatic increase in prices.”
...
http://nation.com.pk/business/28-Sep...ebola-outbreak




				__________________
"Safety and security don't just happen, they are the result of collective consensus and public investment. We owe our children, the most vulnerable citizens in our society, a life free of violence and fear." 
-Nelson Mandela
			














Pathfinder

View Public Profile
Find all posts by Pathfinder

















«
Previous Thread
			|
			Next Thread
»







			Currently Active Users Viewing This Thread: 1 (0 members and 1 guests)




 







Thread Tools
Search this Thread





 Show Printable Version
 Email this Page











Search this Thread:

Advanced Search






Display Modes





 Linear Mode
 Switch to Hybrid Mode
 Switch to Threaded Mode
















		Posting Rules
	





You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts

BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
HTML code is On

Forum Rules



















Disclaimers:


The reader is responsible for discerning the validity, factuality or implications of information posted here, be it fictional or based on real events. Moderators on this forum make every effort to review the material posted on this site however, it is not realistically possible for our staff to manually review each post.


The content of posts on this site, including but not limited to links to other web sites, are the expressed opinion of the original authors or posters and are not endorsed by, or representative of the opinions of, the owners or administration of this website. The posts on this website are the opinion of the specific author or poster and should not be construed as statements of advice or factual information. 


Not all posts on this website are intended as truthful or factual assertion by their authors. NO posts on this website should be considered factual information on face value alone. Users are encouraged to USE DISCERNMENT and do their own follow up research while reading and posting on this website. FluTrackers.com Inc. reserves the right to make changes to, corrections and/or remove entirely at any time posts made on this website without notice. In addition, FluTrackers.com Inc. disclaims any and all liability for damages incurred directly or indirectly as a result of a post on this website.


This site is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. You should not assume that this site is error-free or that it will be suitable for the particular purpose which you have in mind when using it. In no event shall FluTrackers.com Inc. be liable for any special, incidental, indirect or consequential damages of any kind, or any damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, those resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether or not advised of the possibility of damage, and on any theory of liability, arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of this site or other documents which are referenced by or linked to this site.


Finally, FluTrackers.com Inc. reserves the right to delete, correct, or make changes to any post on this website without notice at any time for any reason. 


Fair Use Notice:

This site may contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. Users may make such material available in an effort to advance awareness and understanding of issues relating to public health, civil rights, economics, individual rights, international affairs, liberty, science & technology, etc. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C.Section 107, the material on this site is distributed to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes.


 In accordance with industry accepted best practices we ask that users limit their copy / paste of copyrighted material to the relevant portions of the article you wish to discuss and no more than 1 paragraph, and in no case more than 50% of the source material provide a link back to the original article and provide your original comments / criticism in your post with the article. Please remember you are responsible for what you post on the internet and you could be sued by the original copyright holder if you do not honor these rules.


If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of "Fair Use" and legitimately infringes on yours or your clients copyright


we may be contacted concerning copyright matters at:


FluTrackers.com Inc.

c/o Sharon Sanders

1676 Hibiscus Avenue

Winter Park, Florida 32789

Phone: 407-745-1513

E-Mail: flutrackers@earthlink.net


In accordance with section 512 of the U.S. Copyright Act our contact information has been registered with the United States Copyright Office. "Safe Harbor" noticing procedures as outlined in the DMCA apply to this website concerning all 3rd party posts published herein.


If notice is given of an alleged copyright violation we will act expeditiously to remove or disable access to the material(s) in question.


All 3rd party material posted on this website is the copyright of the respective owners / authors. FluTrackers.com Inc. makes no claim of copyright on such material.


For more information please visit:
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml


Please be aware any communications sent complaining about a post on this website may be posted publicly at the discretion of the administration.


FluTrackers Does Not Provide Any Medical Advice:


FluTrackers, Inc. does not provide medical advice. Information on this web site is collected from various internet resources, and the FluTrackers board of directors makes no warranty to the safety, efficacy, correctness or completeness of the information posted on this site by any author or poster.


The information collated here is for instructional and/or discussion purposes only and is NOT intended to diagnose or treat any disease, illness, or other medical condition. Every individual reader or poster should seek advice from their personal physician/healthcare practitioner before considering or using any interventions that are discussed on this website.


By continuing to access this website you agree to consult your personal physican before using any interventions posted on this website, and you agree to hold harmless FluTrackers.com Inc., the board of directors, the members, and all authors and posters for any effects from use of any medication, supplement, vitamin or other substance, device, intervention, etc. mentioned in posts on this website, or other internet venues referenced in posts on this website.


By using and/or accessing this site, either passively or actively, you are agreeing to all of the above conditions. Also, by using and/or accessing this site, either passively or actively, you agree to conduct all business and legal affairs related to this website in the jurisdiction of Flutrackers.com Inc. which is registered in  Central Florida, USA.


These Disclaimers are subject to change at anytime.


Email the Webmaster with questions or comments about this site at flutrackers@earthlink.net




All times are GMT -4. The time now is 03:56 PM.















Contact Us -
				FluTrackers.com -
				
			
Archive -
				
				
				
				Top









	H1N1 Influenza Swine Flu Avian Flu Infectious Diseases. Powered by vBulletin® Version 3.8.7Copyright ©2000 - 2014, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.
Template-Modifications by TMS


















