Top medical expert calls Ebola outbreak 'suspicious'; others cite use as bio-weaponTop medical expert calls Ebola outbreak 'suspicious'; others cite use as bio-weapon









Current Events
Business
Science & Tech
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Travel
BrandSpace


Current Events
Business
Science & Tech
Sports
Entertainment
Lifestyle
Travel
BrandSpace



























Close Video













Conflict & Tragedy
Top medical expert calls Ebola outbreak 'suspicious'; others cite use as bio-weapon




TJ Larson
Aug 09, 2014




















 After much speculation about the current Ebola outbreak, one medical expert has gone on record to voice concerns about what is being called the worst Ebola outbreak in recorded history.  “I am concerned about the prevalence and pathogenicity of the situation, which is too much even for Ebola. Too many people are dying. I don't rule out that there's something artificial here .... What is happening with Ebola there, could there also be something man-made about it?” Gennady Onischenko, Russia's former chief medical officer, told RT News on Thursday.  Onischenko's comments are the first from a credible medical expert that openly cast doubt on the current outbreak's natural origin.  The World Health Organization's head of health security, Keiji Fukuda, also voiced concern over whether current measures are sufficient to contain the outbreak, but stopped short of questioning the outbreak's origin.  “The likelihood is that things [with Ebola] will get worse before they get better,” he warned.  As of Aug. 8, WHO confirmed 1,779 infections of Ebola across four countries, resulting in 961 fatalities, according to Time magazine.  Although no other experts have questioned the cause of the outbreak, several have expressed concern that Ebola could be used as a biological weapon.  “Such possibility exists,” Vladimir Nikiforov, who heads the Department of Infectious Diseases at the Federal Medical-Biological Agency's Institution of Advanced Training, acknowledged at a press conference in Moscow, according to RT.  “Actually, this virus can be used in the form of a spray, which can lead to very big trouble,” said Nikiforov. “Biological weapons are nothing like a nuclear bomb …. In order to make a nuclear bomb, one would require a uranium mine, a nuclear power plant and so on, but biological weapons are made in a small laboratory, which can be easily camouflaged.”  Biological antropologist Dr. Peter Walsh of Cambridge University said that only a few laboratories in the world have samples of the Ebola virus and are all well protected. However, he pointed out that there is a risk that terrorist organizations might try to acquire the virus from West Africa.  The virus has spread with such rapidity that WHO declared a global health emergency, while the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention assigned its highest priority level to containing the disease. The Nigerian government has also declared a national state of emergency in response to the outbreak.  The virus, which reportedly began in Guinea, spread to Nigeria via Liberian-American Patrick Sawyer, who took ill and died July 25. A nurse who treated Sawyer later died as well. There has since been suspected cases in several other countries.  A Saudi Arabian man died after arriving in that country and authorities are trying to locate those the man had contact with. Saudi authorities have not yet officially confirmed the man had Ebola and also denied reports of a second case in the kingdom.  A woman in the United Kingdom collapsed and died there but officials say the woman tested negative for the virus. Initial reports said the woman was sweating and vomiting before collapsing.  Canada now has its first suspected case of Ebola. An unidentified person was admitted to an Ontario hospital suffering from “flu-like” symptoms. The patient had recently traveled to West Africa.  US health officials in New York recently cleared a suspected Ebola case and five others were tested for the virus. The US allowed two Ebola-infected American missionaries to return to the country for treatment with an experimental serum. Both patients are reportedly improving.  Spain has also transported a patient into its borders for treatment.  Benin reports that it isolated two suspected cases on Thursday.  The Philippines also reported seven suspected cases after one health worker returning from West Africa began showing flu-like symptoms. All seven workers have reportedly tested negative for Ebola. 


















Allvoices.com
Allvoices is an exclusive community where great writers can connect, share their original content, gain exposure and earn money.
Our team of professional editors curates all content to make sure our readers have fresh, interesting reads everyday.
                    


Corporate Links

Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy
How It Works
Our Talent






BrandSpace by PulsePoint
BrandSpace is a venue for our best sponsored content to be featured on
                        Allvoices.com.
                        PulsePoint is a leader in the content marketing space, and our stable of great content
                        creators helps our partners reach and connect to their desired audience. BrandSpace is
                        where that content lives.
                    


About PulsePoint
We want to give our buyer and seller clients priority access to smarter impressions across
                        the web so they have better targeting, better insights, and better ROI. We do this
                        through impression-level transparency on proprietary audience, content and
                        engagement data segments.
                    




Writer Community
Our writers come from all walks of life, from full-time freelancers looking to build a larger
                        following to desk jockeys who want to keep the creative juices flowing. Allvoices’ writers are
                        passionate and insightful, and they have unique perspectives about a variety of subjects.

                    
To write on Allvoices you must apply and be selected by our team of editors. Once chosen, you can
                        write on your own schedule about what you are interested in — and get paid!
                    






