Why Canada must approach Ebola outbreak like a natural disaster - Canada - CBC NewsWhy Canada must approach Ebola outbreak like a natural disaster - Canada - CBC News










Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to CBC accessibility page





 







CBC Global Navigation


CBC.ca

News
News Menu


Sports
Sports Menu


Music
 


Radio
Radio Menu


TV
TV Menu


My Region Menu
 


More CBC Menu
 


Watch 
Watch Menu


Listen
Listen Menu











 











 














CBC News Canada

Major StoriesIn The News




    										In the news
					




Ebola test

 



Copyright law

 



Generic drug costs

 



Ebola outbreak

 






CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

Canada

Photo Galleries
Aboriginal
BC
Kamloops
Calgary
Edmonton
Saskatchewan
Saskatoon
Manitoba
Thunder Bay
Sudbury
Windsor
Kitchener-Waterloo
Hamilton
Toronto
Ottawa
Montreal
NB
PEI
NS
NL
North








Why Canada must approach Ebola outbreak like a natural disaster

Thousands of local, hundreds of foreign health workers needed to help fight contagion

By Amber Hildebrandt, CBC News
Posted: Sep 05, 2014 5:00 AM ET
Last Updated: Sep 05, 2014 2:49 PM ET

 



 
              MSF has treated two-thirds of those infected with Ebola in the six-month long outbreak, but says it's overwhelmed and needs governments to help out. (Doctors Without Borders)            









 

Ebola outbreak threatens food security
							4:45
						






 



Ebola outbreak threatens food security 4:45

 





Related Stories


Dr. Eilish Cleary heading to Nigeria to fight Ebola virus

Ebola outbreak: 'We need action now,' says CDC director Tom Frieden 

Ebola outbreak threatens food security in hardest-hit countries









With dire predictions of 20,000 people — more than six times the current toll — becoming infected with Ebola, calls are mounting for countries, including Canada, to treat the outbreak like a natural disaster and deploy military teams.
It’s an unprecedented request, but so, too, is the outbreak.
The current outbreak is the longest and most deadly in history, infecting more than 3,500 so far according to numbers from health officials. Three of the countries affected are among the world’s poorest, with health-care systems that are on the verge of collapse.
"It's time to treat this Ebola outbreak in the way we would treat a natural disaster, because it is a natural disaster," said Dr. Keith Martin, a former Liberal MP who now heads the Washington-based Consortium of Universities for Global Health.
Canada and other countries have military medical teams, personnel knowledgeable in how to handle biohazards, and field hospitals — all skills and equipment desperately needed to contain the hemorrhagic fever.
Médecins Sans Frontières, the non-governmental medical organization on the front lines of the battle against Ebola, says its more than 1,800 staff are overwhelmed trying to contain the disease and train other NGOs interested in helping join the battle. That’s why they’ve turned to governments capable of rapidly deploying military units and running self-contained field hospitals.
Dr. Joanne Liu, MSF's international president, visited an Ebola treatment centre in Kailahun, Sierra Leone. The non-profit has been helping to train other NGOs to handle the hemorrhagic fever.  (P.K. Lee/ MSF/ Canadian Press)
"What we do know is the governments' civil defence and military have played important roles in natural disaster response. We've seen that in Haiti and the tsunami," said MSF Canada’s executive director Stephen Cornish. "So governments can be part of the solution, and in this case they simply must be part of the solution."
The WHO estimates that it requires up to 250 health care workers to treat 80 Ebola patients. That means the crisis requires thousands of local health care workers and hundreds of international volunteers on top of the people already in place in the affected countries.
Meanwhile, at least 150 health workers have died from Ebola and many others are too afraid to come to work.
Costs are soaring as well, from the equipment needed for health care workers to the hazard pay. About $600 million in supplies are needed, with only an estimated $110 million committed by last week, according to Reuters.
Adding to the woes, food in the region is already becoming more expensive and the United Nations food agency is predicting that it will become scarcer as farmers are unable to work their fields. 
On Thursday, a letter published in The Lancet said the crisis could have been averted if governments and health agencies had created a $100 million US contingency fund to rapidly deploy in public health emergencies, as the WHO proposed in 2011. Instead, the international response has been "fractured and delayed," as the international body scrambles to raise the necessary funds, wrote Lawrence Gostin, the O'Neill Chair in Global Health Law at Washington, D.C.-based Georgetown University.
But Cornish warns that at this point, this is not a disaster that governments can “fund away.” MSF says the international response has been "lethally inadequate," and the world is losing the battle to contain it.
Right now, Cornish stresses, the crisis first and foremost requires trained medical teams on the ground.
A 'robust response'
NDP MP Hélène Laverdière, the official opposition critic for international development, says Canada and other countries can, and should, do more to help.
Three of the countries affected by Ebola are among the poorest in the world and have health-care systems that are now on the verge of collapse due to the outbreak, says MSF. (Sylvain Cherkaoui/Cosmos/Medecins Sans Frontieres)
"The appeals for immediate action are numerous and non-stop, and I think anybody who stops and listens to what's happening ... cannot but agree that something needs to be done now. And if it's not done now, then it will be worse later," said Laverdière.
She suggested countries may not be heeding the call to action because they are preoccupied with crises in the Middle East and the Ukraine.
But Dr. Peter Singer, CEO of Grand Challenges Canada, a federally-funded global health group, suggests Canada has already stepped up to the plate.
"Canada has already provided a robust response relative to other nations," said Dr. Singer, citing the labour-intensive creation of a potential vaccine, as well as monetary contributions and lab expertise.
To date, Canada has donated more than 800 doses of an experimental Ebola vaccine, which was developed by the Public Health Agency of Canada, to the WHO. The vaccine must still undergo months of human testing before it’s ready for use in West Africa.
Canada sent a rotating team of three scientists to staff a mobile laboratory in eastern Sierra Leone that did rapid diagnostic Ebola tests. The latest team was evacuated last week after people in their hotel were diagnosed with the disease. That departure forced the lab to temporarily shut down, slowing operations in the area. Health Canada says a team will return once they can "ensure a safe living environment." No data was given.
The federal government has also contributed $5 million to support humanitarian, security and public health needs in trying to contain the disease.
"Canada remains one of the largest country donors to the Ebola crisis response," Health Canada said in a written statement. "[It's] is continually reviewing how it can better assist its international partners to provide aid in the affected regions."
A 'Band-Aid' solution
For some, however, that’s not enough.
"It's quite nice to send a bit of money and offer up lab services, but this is less than a Band-Aid. It's about one cent of a Band-Aid on a large, big crisis. So, I think we should do more, not only Canada but the international community as a whole," said Laverdière.
A resident of the West Point neighbourhood receives food rations from the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Monrovia. Food has become expensive and scarce as farmers abandon their fields. (Reuters)
Dr. Martin notes that Canada has the capacity to help with its Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) and additional medical expertise.
DART is a military unit that can rapidly deploy in natural disasters and humanitarian emergencies for up to 40 days.
It’s most recent deployment came after Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines on Nov. 8, 2013. The team treated 6,500 patients, cleared roads and delivered supplies. Canada also sent more than 2,000 military personnel, a field hospital and helped treat 22,000 patients to help after a devastating earthquake struck Haiti on Jan. 12, 2010.
Though typically used in natural disasters, the origins of DART stem from the 1994 deployment of two field ambulances to Rwanda to help with an outbreak of cholera in refugee camps housing hundreds of thousands of people.
"We have a military medical response mechanism," said Dr. Martin. "We have portable hospitals, medical personnel ... primary care and advanced care systems to treat those affected by Ebola, to effectively deal with the dead, to educate the public about what the virus is."
The Canadian team only deploys when another government wants its help. As in any emergency, Dr. Martin stresses that the countries affected by Ebola must request military medical help before it’s deployed.
In calling for military medical help, MSF was careful to emphasize that any military assets and personnel deployed should not be used for quarantine, since "forced quarantines have only bred fear and unrest, rather than stem the virus."
World must 'step up'
A former medical advisor to Health Canada's deputy minister, Dr. Paul Gully, agrees that Canada should step up and provide more help in this crisis, but he notes that any deployment will require extensive resources.
Germany's Icon Genetics has developed a process to produce proteins and enzymes via the nicotiana benthamiana plant that will be used in the production of antibodies for ZMapp, which is being heralded as a possible cure to the Ebola virus.  (Sean Gallup/Getty)
"It is part of the global community and therefore should work with other member states ... to then have a unified and co-ordinated response, hopefully led by WHO," said Dr. Gully.
He notes that any deployment requires consular support, the ability to evacuate workers if needed, money to pay health workers and insure them, plus training, food, lodging and travel.
"It's a lot of coordination that would be required. Canada has probably some capacity that it could share,” he said. “But it's not simple.”
MSF says that their NGO has become the de-facto leader in this crisis and its time for governments to commit resources.
"It simply isn't a responsibility, a role that is ours to shoulder," said Cornish. "The world has to step up to this emergency.
“If the call is unanswered, this could clearly turn into a disease and an outbreak of cataclysmic proportions.”

Ebola outbreak threatens food security in hardest-hit countries
ANALYSIS | It's not the virus, but Africa that's changed








Report Typo
Send Feedback





Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.

Submission Policy
Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines.






Regions

British Columbia
Kamloops
Calgary
Edmonton
Saskatchewan
Saskatoon
Manitoba
Thunder Bay
Sudbury
Windsor


Kitchener-Waterloo
Hamilton
Toronto
Ottawa
Montreal
New Brunswick
Prince Edward Island
Nova Scotia
Newfoundland & Labrador
North




Stay Connected with CBC News



Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter


















    																		Top News Headlines
										





 
2nd Texas health-care worker with Ebola to be transferred to Atlanta








Police got faxed instructions to locate head of Jun Lin






4 Canadians among a dozen people killed in Nepal blizzard, avalanche


video




Google unveils new Nexus tablet, smartphone






Telus misleads by picking and choosing wireless speed data, critics say 










Must Watch











    																		Latest Canada News Headlines
										





 
Police got faxed instructions to locate head of Jun Lin








Telus misleads by picking and choosing wireless speed data, critics say 






Canadian dollar hits 5-year low under 88 cents US






Elliot Lake fatal mall collapse comes down to 'human failure,' report says


video
audio




Stephen Harper's polling picture bleak, but history offers him hope










The National

The Bottom Line
Fact or Fiction?


Sting: The Last Ship
Canadian exclusive interview with the rock legend


Robert Downey Jr.
The star talks to Jian Ghomeshi about fame and family.





The Current

Canada By Design: A plan to develop the 'Mid-Canada Corridor' Oct. 15, 2014  3:36 PM Most Canadians live within an easy drive to the U.S. border, but some believe it would be better for Canada's future to encourage more people to settle and develop resources much farther north.







    																		Most Viewed
										




McDonald's coffee cup contained dead mouse, Fredericton man says


video




Hitler with an Afro T-shirt in Montreal boutique Hadio offends shopper






2 Ottawa-area women among those missing in Nepal






Secret murder: RCMP say Shirley Parkinson homicide is private






Nepal avalanche kills 4 Canadians


video




Hurricane Gonzalo advances, storm forecast to hit Atlantic Canada






Quebec City obstetrician refused to deliver baby in hospital parking lot






Luka Magnotta trial: Police were faxed directions to victim's head






Swarms of biting ladybugs invade Montreal-area homes


audio




Elliot Lake fatal mall collapse comes down to 'human failure,' report says


video
audio









									Right Communications
			






 
The National
Canada's destination for original journalism and stories with added depth and context.





 
The Exchange with Amanda Lang
The day's biggest business stories. Weeknights at 7 p.m. ET on CBC News Network



















																	Don't Miss
								








 HOMOSEXUALITY

Catholic Church's overture to gays 'encouraging' but unlikely to change school teaching





 Analysis

Stephen Harper's polling picture bleak, but history offers him hope





 
Secret murder: RCMP say Shirley Parkinson homicide is private





 ASSISTED SUICIDE

Where do Canada and other countries stand?





 Analysis

Conservatives' copyright law changes could backfire





 END OF LIFE

Death determination debate rages on in science, medicine





 Stolen nude photos

Should Google share the blame for hacked photos?





 ILLEGAL DUMPING

Why do so many Canadians trash Canada?





 Vertigo

The latest rehab techniques for chronic vertigo





 INFECTIONS

Enterovirus D68: What we know about the virus





 DON PITTIS

As markets fall, IMF urges more economic risk-taking





 Brian Stewart

The 'unknown unknowns' of confronting ISIS in Iraq





 Ebola screening

Airport fever checks for Ebola 'mostly a waste of time'





 FAQ

What to know about this year's flu virus





 Video

Cranberries: How this tangy treat gets to your Thanksgiving table














CBC Global Footer


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Music
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


Subscriptions
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Transparency and Accountability
Jobs
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts
Independent Producers


Public Appearances
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Image Research Library & Still Photos
Consumer Recordings
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Help
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2014

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca



























