Ebola evacuations to US greater than previously known - Yahoo NewsEbola evacuations to US greater than previously known - Yahoo News










   HomeMailNewsSportsFinanceWeatherGamesGroupsAnswersScreenFlickrMobileMoreCelebrityMoviesMusicTVHealthStyleBeautyFoodDIYTechShoppingTravelAutosHomes                        Sign In     Mail      Help    Account Info Help Suggestions      











Follow Yahoo News







 on Facebook





 on Twitter





 on Tumblr





 on Google+





 on Flickr
















News Home


U.S.


World


Politics


Tech


Science


Health


Odd News


Local


Dear Abby


Comics


ABC News


Yahoo Originals


Photos



































Ebola evacuations to US greater than previously known
Transports have included patients exposed to virus, air ambulance operator says







By Jason Sickles, Yahoo
September 9, 2014 12:25 PM


Yahoo News
































Content preferences




Done











 View gallery.An airplane transporting a doctor infected with the deadly Ebola in West Africa lands near Atlanta on Tuesday. …An undisclosed number of people who’ve been exposed to the Ebola virus — not just the four patients publicly identified with diagnosed cases — have been evacuated to the U.S. by an air ambulance company contracted by the State Department.
“We moved a lot of other people who had an exposure event,” said Dent Thompson, vice president of Phoenix Air Group. “Many times these people are just fine, they just had an exposure. But you have to treat it as though the disease is present.”
How many exposed patients have been flown from West Africa to the U.S.? Thompson said medical privacy laws and his company’s contract with the State Department prevent him from revealing the figure.
“I’m not avoiding it,” Thompson told Yahoo News. “I’m just not allowed to talk about it.”
Five weeks ago, medical missionary Dr. Kent Brantly became the first Ebola patient to be treated in the U.S. He and fellow missionary Nancy Writebol were nursed back to health in a special isolation unit at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta and later released. Dr. Rick Sacra and an unidentified doctor who arrived on Tuesday are currently being treated in the U.S.
 View gallery.An ambulance carries American missionary Nancy Writebol from the airport to Atlanta's Emory University Hospital …The State Department confirmed the four known Ebola patient transports but couldn’t provide details on any exposure evacuations to the United States. Phoenix Air, they said, is under contract because of its expertise.
An unnamed State Department official said “every precaution is taken to move the patient safely and securely, to provide critical care en route, and to maintain strict isolation upon arrival in the United States.”
Thompson said Phoenix Air has flown 10 Ebola-related missions in the past six weeks.
“Not everything we do is [related to] a sick person,” he said, adding that the company has also flown supplies. “We do basically whatever needs to be done.”
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which is operating an around-the-clock Ebola emergency operations center, did not immediately respond to an email seeking information about the exposure patient transports.
On Monday, President Barack Obama, who has called the outbreak a U.S. national security priority, pledged more U.S. assistance to West Africa. The White House recently requested $30 million more from Congress to help the CDC’s efforts with the crisis.
With multiple government and aid organizations trying to tackle the unprecedented epidemic, Thompson predicts his team will be flying more precautionary patients back to the U.S.
“There will be a certain number of people who, through no fault of their own, will have an exposure event, and they are immediately identified and immediately extracted,” he said.
Phoenix Air’s modified Gulfstream III jets are “literally intensive care units with wings,” Thompson said. He said even evacuees without a confirmed Ebola diagnosis are placed in an isolation chamber for the 12- to 14-hour flight from West Africa to the U.S.
“You can never, ever let your safety guards down,” he said.
 View gallery.The tentlike device installed on Phoenix Air's planes when biological containment is required. (CDC/Reuters)
The Georgia-based air transport company got involved in the latest Ebola crisis when the Christian humanitarian group Samaritan’s Purse recruited it to evacuate Brantly and Writebol. The State Department was involved in the logistics, but the trips were funded by Samaritan’s Purse.
Since then, Thompson said, Phoenix Air has solely been under contract with the State Department.
“It became evident that we could no longer treat any of these flights as a private or commercial flight,” said Thompson, declining to divulge the specifics of the government contract.
Brantly, Writebol and the latest patient have been treated at Emory University in Atlanta. Last week, Sacra was flown to the Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha. Those hospitals, plus the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, and St. Patrick’s Hospital in Missoula, Montana, have specially-equipped biocontainment units built in collaboration with the CDC. However, the CDC has said any U.S. hospital following infection control recommendations and isolating a patient in a private room is capable of safely managing an infected patient.
Thompson declined to say where patients who have just been exposed to Ebola have been flown to in the U.S.
“They all go to a hospital and they monitor them,” he said. “If they do develop it, then they treat them. And, fingers crossed, they’re going to walk out the way Brantly and Nancy Writebol walked out.”
Follow Jason Sickles on Twitter (@jasonsickles).

 
 
HealthDisease & Medical ConditionsState DepartmentPhoenix AirNancy Writebol





Click to view comments


View Comments (1523)











 











   What to read next            Trending     Netherlands says OK for biker gangs to fight Islamic State         Michelle Obama Dances With Turnip Sponsored            Trending     Airline Apologizes for Flight Attendant's Treatment of Soldier          Trending     Beauty and the beast          Trending     Exhibition of Syria torture photos shows 'depravity' of Assad regime         Dallas nurses cite sloppy conditions in Ebola care Sponsored            Trending     Second Dallas nurse with Ebola was on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143          Trending     Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project          Trending     Humans may only survive 68 days on Mars          Trending     Ann Romney: If Mitt had been elected president ‘I do not believe there …       
   Latest Slideshows            Photos   View   Ebola virus facts         Hong Kong protests Sponsored Reuters           Photos   View   Photos of the day - October 15, 2014          Photos   View   Drone flight causes near-international incident during soccer match          Photos   View   U.S. airstrikes in Syria         'Living On A Dollar A Day' wins IPA's best documentary book for 2014 Sponsored Yahoo News           Photos   View   Beauty and the beast          Photos   View   Photos of the day - October 14, 2014          Photos   View   The windows have it: famous architects silhouetted in pensive poses in …          Photos   View   Philippe Starck unveils line of eco-friendly prefab homes: in pictures       

   Top Stories                2nd Texas nurse with Ebola identified         It’s no Desert Storm. But it’s also no Operation Iraqi Liberation (OIL … Sponsored Yahoo News         Dow plunges 450 points            Play   Ann Romney's new ammunition in fight against MS              Report: U.S. troops injured by abandoned Iraqi chemical weapons         Trooper kills box-cutter wielding man on Ct. tour bus Sponsored Reuters               At soccer match, drone flight causes near-international incident              North, South Korea hold high-level military talks              Comet landing site picked for European space mission              Photo exhibition shows 'depravity' of Syria's Assad regime       









Yahoo - ABC News Network


Help / Suggestions


Privacy


About Our Ads


Terms






































