
	New clinic key to Sierra Leone's Ebola fight - Africa - Al Jazeera English

	New clinic key to Sierra Leone's Ebola fight - Africa - Al Jazeera English

















































News
Shows
In Depth
Opinion
Human Rights
Video
Blogs
Sport

Investigations
Weather
Watch Live











Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East




Inside Story
Witness
Listening Post
People & Power
101 East
The Stream
More




Focus
Features
In Pictures
Interactive
Spotlight




Football
Cricket
Tennis
Formula One
Golf
US Sports
Features
More




 




 




 




 




 




Counting the Cost
News




 




This month on Al Jazeera
















 












Africa










                    New clinic key to Sierra Leone's Ebola fight
                
















Red Cross facility near eastern city of Kenema set to admit first patients, relieving pressure on government hospital.




  Ashley Hamer

                            Last updated: 12 Sep 2014 11:50






































Kenema, Sierra Leone - The second Ebola treatment centre to be built from scratch in Sierra Leone is set to admit its first wave of patients this weekend.
The white-tented site stands in lush greenery off a main highway a few kilometres outside the Ebola-ravaged eastern city of Kenema, about six hours' drive from the capital Freetown.
It has been built by the International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC) in their first attempt so far to run an Ebola treatment facility.

Live Box 201482813039822244


Ebola has killed 436 people in Sierra Leone, with 1,341 confirmed cases overall, according to the Ministry of Health's latest figures. The true numbers are unknown but likely far higher.



The IFRC hospital will hold 60 patients at full capacity and was built from nothing in three weeks, aiming to take new Ebola cases from the surrounding district.
It will also relieve pressure on the now infamous Kenema government hospital where remaining staff continue to treat patients in the same wards where up to 30 doctors and nurses have been infected and died since the start of the outbreak.
"Usually with a Red Cross field hospital we could open today, but we have had to wait for final building materials to arrive because once you admit the first patient, a construction worker can't go back in and add parts," Steve McAndrew, head of emergency operations for IFRC Sierra Leone, told Al Jazeera in the capital Freetown.
 Lack of medical staff 
The team is ready, according to Tiina Saarikoski, manager of the new Kenema Ebola treatment centre (ETC), the day before the proposed opening. "This hospital wouldn't be open if I wasn't 100 percent sure. We will not take risks."
But they are only prepared for an initial admission of 40 patients and it will not be an easy start.
"We are still waiting for more PPE (Personal protective equipment for staff) due to arrive by truck today. We have 600 on site and I have requested another 2,000 sets," Saarikoski said.
Staff at a treatment facility like this may use and destroy up to 200 sets of PPE per day.
There is also a crippling shortage of people willing and capable to work in these conditions. "The IFRC hospital hired and trained 35 national nurses for the site but 15 have since decided they do not want the job.
"They are afraid," said Thomas Abu, caretaker manager for the local Sierra Leone Red Cross Society at his current base in Kenema town.
Three of the nurses recruited from Freetown are staying in the Kenema Red Cross guesthouse. It is their first time there and their first time working on Ebola.
Aisatu Turay, 27, said the reason they were in the guesthouse was because people in the town were still unwilling to host Ebola workers.
"We are here to save lives," she told Al Jazeera. "We are not afraid, it is our duty and we want to work."
Despite the fear and stigmatisation, International Red Cross staff who recruited their local colleagues in advance of the opening have been struck by people's need to rally for their brothers and sisters to beat this disease.





We need more beds and there are still not enough treatment facilities to cope with the patient-load.
 Tiina Saarikoski, manager of the Kenema Ebola treatment centre 





 "You have to be brave to choose this sort of mission," Lauralee Morris, senior medical officer at the site, said.
Morris volunteered for the Ebola project from Canada and has trained the nurses and hygienists who will be working alongside her while learning the ropes first time herself.
"It is important to provide a safe place for patients where they won't infect their families but can be cared for in a nice environment."
This treatment facility is modelled on Sierra Leone's original treatment centre, built by Médecins Sans Frontières in June in the remote epidemic epicentre of Kailahun.
Patients were being driven 12 hours from Freetown to the MSF centre but Kenema's opening and a third site under construction in nearby Bo are intended to alleviate the strain.
The Kenema centre hopes to have improved the hospital water distribution system such that it flows round this site more efficiently and has also added special "vomit tanks" which the MSF centre does not have.
That these crisis response teams are breaking new boundaries with Ebola cannot be underestimated.
"It's a massive operation. This has never happened before on this scale, there is no handbook for this," Steve McAndrew said.
Sierra Leone's new Ebola hospitals are preparing to treat people at full capacity for six to nine months at least, but nobody knows where this epidemic is going.
Despite a positive, ready-for-action attitude from on-site personnel, resources are still critically lacking and generally insufficient to cope with an ever-increasing number of Ebola infections.
"We need more beds and there are still not enough treatment facilities to cope with the patient-load," said Saarikoski.
Sierra Leone's Red Cross Ebola team has so far received 20 percent of the funding it asked for having increased its appeal from $6m in July to $32m now.
 Ebola checkpoints 
Nevertheless Sierra Leone finally appears to be getting to grips with its Ebola response.
Checkpoints along the main highways have increased tenfold and military officials have become stricter, demanding newly introduced Special Ebola Response passes issued for cross-country travellers by the Health Ministry.
Every checkpoint is manned by volunteer health workers using temperature guns to test for those travelling with a fever.
Most checkpoint health operators told Al Jazeera they had only recorded one or two individuals with worrisome fevers in the last two weeks.
However, it is hard to keep track with equipment breaking, being lost, and general uncertainty about its efficiency in detecting potential Ebola cases.
"Usually when somebody comes with a fever of 37 degrees they panic," one young volunteer said.

Live Box 201482572719796478


"We calm them, talk to them, wait for a while then test again. If the temperature is the same we call the medical officer for help."
There are also complaints from local coordinators about "medical staff at Ebola checkpoints not devoted to their jobs" and power struggles between officials from different localities deployed to monitor travellers.
However, government restrictions do not seem to be hindering the movement of what people and supplies there are in transit for Sierra Leone's Ebola crisis response.
"We have free passes to move and the local and national authorities have been very supportive and accommodating. They are actively encouraging us," Tiina Saarikoski said.
Providing she receives her shipment of PPE from Freetown, Saarikoski plans to open the centre on Friday afternoon with an admission of four patients.
"I hope that when we open it is controlled," she said, "we are not ready to take 60 patients immediately. That would create chaos."
The site only has enough staff and equipment to cope with up to 40 at present, with an increased capacity dependent on continued delivery of supplies and the recruitment and training of more local and international workers.


1263











































Topics in this article

People
Lauralee Morris
Tiina Saarikoski
Steve McAndrew
Aisatu Turay
Thomas Abu


Country
Sierra Leone
Canada


City
Kenema
Freetown


Organisation
Red Cross
IFRC hospital
Health Ministry
International Red Cross
Sierra Leone Red Cross Society
International Federation
Ministry of Health



































                Featured on Al Jazeera










UK charity crackdown riles Syria aid workers




        Muslim volunteers face questioning and threat of arrest, while aid has been disrupted or blocked, charities say.
    


















Abandonment of 'Bring Back Our Girls'




        Six months on, outrage and sorrow over the mass schoolgirl abduction has disappeared - except for  families in Nigeria.
    


















A soft approach to returning British fighters




        ISIL combatants seeking an 'exit strategy' from Mideast conflict need positive reinforcement back home, analysts say. 
    


















Austrian youth flocking to ISIL




        European nation hit by a wave of Islamophobia as many young fighters join ISIL in Syria and Iraq.
    























Content on this website is for general information purposes only. 

Your comments are provided by your own free will and you take sole responsibility for any direct or indirect 

liability. You hereby provide us with an irrevocable, unlimited, and global license for no consideration to 

use, reuse, delete or publish comments, in accordance with Community 

Rules & Guidelines and Terms and 

Conditions.





Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.












 








            Top News Accordion
        







Top News







Al Jazeera films ISIL battle with Iraqi army 





Rival militias fight for Libya's Benghazi





US bombs stall ISIL advance in Kobane





Nepal avalanche kills hikers and villagers





WFP cuts rations for one million Afghans






















            News
        







Africa






WHO finds 70 percent Ebola mortality rate 





Strike over Ebola pay hits Liberia hospitals





Deadly car bomb explodes near Mogadishu cafe





Cameroon: Boko Haram hostages freed in north





Six UN police wounded in fresh CAR fighting






















            What's Hot
        





What's Hot



Viewed


Discussed


7 Days













                                Al Jazeera films ISIL battle with Iraqi army
                            






                                WHO finds 70 percent Ebola mortality rate
                            






                                US bombs stall ISIL advance in Kobane
                            






                                Malala and Nabila: worlds apart
                            






                                Are we losing the race against Ebola?
                            






                                Ceuta: Multicultural city
                            






                                Saudi court sentences Shia leader to death
                            






                                The things we won't know about ISIL
                            






                                Rival militias fight for Libya's Benghazi
                            






                                Analysis: Can US strategy defeat ISIL?
                            



















{Title}













                        ISIL pushes deeper into Syrian town
                    






                        Tariq Ramadan: 'ISIL's acts are un-Islamic'
                    






                        Iraqi city falls to ISIL as army withdraws
                    






                        Iraqi Shia militias accused of murder spree
                    






                        Kurds holding line as ISIL push on town
                    






                        British MPs back recognition of Palestine
                    






                        Malala and Satyarthi awarded Nobel Prize
                    






                        Turkey bombs Kurdish PKK targets in south
                    






                        Triple suicide bombing hits Kurds in Iraq
                    






                        Kerry: Saving Kobane not part of strategy
                    















                                Malala and Nabila: worlds apart
                            






                                Iraqi city falls to ISIL as army withdraws
                            






                                Why is Ben Affleck defending Islam?
                            






                                The scorpion hunters of Pakistan
                            






                                New air strikes hit ISIL positions in Kobane
                            






                                What gives legitimacy to ISIL's rhetoric?
                            






                                Austrian youth flocking to ISIL
                            






                                Interactive: Countries countering ISIL
                            






                                Battle rages for control of Syria's Kobane
                            






                                The end of the Hong Kong 'dream'
                            



















{Title}























  







            Featured
        














Can US strategy defeat ISIL?


            Lacking cohesive local ground forces to attack in tandem, coalition air strikes will have limited effect, experts say.
        
















'Love jihad': War on romance in India


            Hindu right-wing groups run campaign against what they say is Muslim conspiracy to convert Hindu girls into Islam.
        
















#BringBackOurGirls


            Six months on, outrage and sorrow over the mass schoolgirl abduction has disappeared - except for  families in Nigeria.
        
















Muslim families look after Kolkata synagogues


            Muslim caretakers maintain three synagogues in eastern Indian city, which was once home to a thriving Jewish community.
        
















'Iraq is now like a drowning man'


            Amid fresh ISIL gains, officials in Anbar province have urged the Iraqi government to request foreign ground troops.
        

















            Opinion
        












Escaping Kobane: Relief and guilt
Wasiq Mami














The things we won't know about ISIL
Sharif Nashashibi














The other victims of Ebola in Liberia
Bill Burke














Egypt: Rebranding Sisi
John Bell














Saving Kobane
Namo Abdulla














Women in combat: All fair in love and war?
Julia Zulver 














How art goes boom in the Gulf
Hrag Vartanian














Kobane Kurds: Sacrificed for political expediency?
Kani Xulam














Gaza donors: Will they get it right this time?
Tony Laurance














UK vote on Palestine: Why all the fuss?
Rachel Shabi
















 



















Al Jazeera
Watch Live
Video
Podcasts
RSS
Mobile
Follow on Twitter






News
Africa
Americas
Asia-Pacific
Central & South Asia
Europe
Middle East
Sport




In Depth
Opinion
Features
Spotlight
In Pictures
Blogs
Interactive




Shows
The Stream
Witness
Inside Story
Inside Story Americas
Listening Post
People & Power
Fault Lines
Artscape




The Frost Interview
101 East
Counting The Cost
Talk to Al Jazeera
Empire
The Cafe
Al Jazeera World
South2North
Inside Syria




Watch
Live
On Demand
Podcasts
Mobile
Broadcast Schedule
Weather
Hotel/Partners
Search




More
About Us
Licensing footage
Press Office
Work for us
Al Jazeera America
Al Jazeera Turk
AJ Center for Studies
AJ Balkans
Investigations
Community Rules
Terms & Conditions




































































