Olodo Nation   –  (PICZ) #Ebola Bad For Business – Lagos Sex WorkersOlodo Nation   –  (PICZ) #Ebola Bad For Business – Lagos Sex WorkersGoogle 




Home
UnilagOlodo
WRITE FOR US
ABOUT US
CONTACT US
 
















 





Editorials
Entertainment
Events
Interviews
Music
Series

Chronicles of Lola
Dominoes
Lamentations Of An Ugly Girl


Social Issues
 







← Previous Post
Next Post →


(PICZ) #Ebola Bad For Business – Lagos Sex Workers
Ibrahim Salawu
August 18, 2014
0




(PICZ) See Wizkid & Emmanuel Adebayo Having A Nice Time


(PICZ) See Seyi Shay Goes Fierce & Chic Spread For Y! Africa


 
West Africa’s ebola outbreak has drastically slowed business in Nigeria’s informal employment sector which employs 75% of Nigeria’s economy. Sex workers are among the hardest hit.
 

Since the first case of ebola in Nigeria was reported in July, sex workers have seen a drastic decline in patronage in the otherwise booming trade.
“I have been in this business for two years but business has never been this slow,” said Kate, a 25 year-old Lagos sex-worker, “I used to have an average of seven customers per day but I can hardly see four now since this Ebola disease came to town,”.
The ebola virus is spread through contact with the bodily fluids of an infected person – including sweat. Naturally, this would create an aversion to the sex industry.
“Many of our customers are afraid to come to us for fear of contracting the disease. This Ebola wahala (problem) is really bad business. The government should do something about it.”
Bright, a 23 year-old sex worker says the disease is worse than the HIV/Aids pandemic.
“It is worse than HIV/AIDS. You can prevent HIV by using condoms but you can’t do the same with Ebola,” she said.
But their sector is not the only one affected. Merchants of bushmeat, a delicacy in the region, have also complained of lesser numbers. The hunters of antelope, porcupine and bush rats fear that ebola may’ve taken away their livelihoods as it is also believed that the virus is spread through bushmeat.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.

  Click Here To Subscribe To Our BBM Channel! Add Pin: C001AE1AD Or Search “Official Olodo Nation” To Get Live Updates.  


(PICZ) See Wizkid & Emmanuel Adebayo Having A Nice Time


(PICZ) See Seyi Shay Goes Fierce & Chic Spread For Y! Africa




Share this:


Share





Share on Tumblr
























Google+
 Ibrahim Salawu







Tweet













TAGS » bad, Business, Ebola, lagos, Sex, workers
POSTED IN » Social Issues


 About the author: Ibrahim Salawu View all posts by Ibrahim Salawu
Ibrahim Salawu is the founder and CEO of OlodoNation.com, a website that provides on-the-minute News & Entertainment updates. Also offers PR Services optimizing Social Media Platforms. Follow Ibrahim on Instagram & Twitter: @UnilagOlodo


Twitter
												
												-
												
												Facebook

















Search Olodo Nation


 


Subscribe
to RSS Feed



27166
Followers



8664
Fans


Rollykeysz Editsz: Graphics Guru(Hilarious Web Series) Aproko 101Series On Olodo NationSubscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.









Recent Commentsowonikoko on Temitope Emmanuel Abolaji ~ Dawo Ibi Duroayobammy on Temitope Emmanuel Abolaji ~ Dawo Ibi Duroj-fizzle on Moet Rose Nights Hosts Basketmouth As He Celebrates His 36th Birthday With Bovi, Terry G, Buchi & Others In Lagosademuwagun olabode on Honda Officially Unveils 2015 Civic, + Special Edition Sedanjej ent on Virginia-based Company ~ ‘ComSonics’ Develops New Traffic Radar Gun To Detect When Drivers Are Texting 
Recent Posts


Gangsters Behead Youth, Shoot Another Dead In Lagos, As Cult Clash Continues
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Chaste Inegbedion, New Global Ambassador for ‘A World at School’ to Adopt Technology In Serving Community
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Kaymu’s MD ‘Evangeline Wiles’ Unveiled As LCCI Goodwill Ambassador
October 15, 2014, No Comments



2Face Unveiled As An Ambassador For Lagos Chamber Of Commerce And Industry
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Out Of School & Don’t Have a Job? The Future Project & Jobberman.com Present #Intern4Jobs … APPLY NOW
October 15, 2014, No Comments



(EVENT) @ClubQuilox Boss Shina Peller To Be Celebrated With @REMYMARTINng’s Pacesetter Party
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Tour Of Da Season Oritse Femi European Tour (The Musik Taliban)
October 15, 2014, No Comments



.@miamormagng Presents #MiaMorCampusStorm Mapoly Invasion, A Youth Empowerment Project For Students
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Rocksteady (@iam_Rocksteady) ~ Okporoko Biz (Prod by Jay Sleek)
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Join The @Ureportnigeria Inititiative! Text ”Join” to 24453 & Read More Here #UreportNigeria
October 15, 2014, No Comments










About Us "Unilag olodo?Why would anyone even use OLODO as a domain name?why would anyone subscribe to a website called unilag olodo?Doesn't he/she know what olodo is?I mean olodo means dummy! for crying out loud!"... Yeap! thats what most of you must have thought. First what is the general term used to describe the word OLODO?What/Who Is An Olodo?
Olodo /oh-low-doh/
1.) A person with a very low IQ thus the inability to grasp simple facts that others understand effortlessly.
 Read More here at : http://olodonation.com/about


Like us on Facebook 


Copyright © 2011 - OlodoNation. All rights reserved.
Powered by OlodoNationBack to Top















This site is protected by Comment SPAM Wiper.  



 




 
 


