 Ebola: voices from the epicentre of the epidemic | Global Development Professionals Network | Guardian Professional  Ebola: voices from the epicentre of the epidemic | Global Development Professionals Network | Guardian Professional 







Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to comments [c]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]




Edition:
UK
US
AU






Your activity
Email subscriptions
Account details
Linked services
Sign out



Profile


Beta




























News


US


World


Sports


Comment


Culture


Business


Money


Environment


Science


Travel


Tech


Media


Life & style


Data







Professional




Global Development Professionals Network





Sign up


Write for us


Jobs


In focus


Events


Blog


About


A-Z















Ebola: voices from the epicentre of the epidemic
As Ebola spreads across west Africa, we talk to the medical and humanitarian professionals scrambling to contain the spread of the disease






Share




Tweet this








Email













Emilie Filou 






Guardian Professional,
				            Monday 14 July 2014 12.17 EDT




Jump to comments (…)











Medics enter an Ebola isolation tent at Donka Hospital in Conakry, Guinea. Photograph: Sylvain Cherkaoui/Cosmos/Médecins Sans Frontières 





The outbreak of Ebola in West Africa is unrelenting: according to the World Health Organisation there have now been 888 cases and 539 deaths across Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia since the virus was first reported in March this year. The epidemic is unprecedented and the global health community has been left scrambling to contain the disease, for which there is no vaccine or cure. 
In a bid to boost the response to the disease, the World Health Organisation (WHO) convened a special meeting on 2-3 July in Accra, Ghana, with health ministers from 11 West African countries and partners involved in tackling the disease.
Here, professionals involved in fighting the deadly virus share their experiences of what it’s like to be at the epicentre of the epidemic.
Dr Ibrahim Bah, medical supervisor at the isolation centre of Hôpital National de Donka, Conakry, Guinea
I work in the department for infectious and tropical diseases so I am used to working on epidemics but this is the first time I have dealt with Ebola. It is a new disease in Guinea. Before Médecins Sans Frontières arrived, we had no specific training on dealing with the virus. At the beginning, I was scared: I saw people haemorrhaging to death. The experience is traumatising for patients too: they know we don’t have a vaccine or a cure, and they think: “I have Ebola, my life is over.”
The earlier patients seek treatment however, the higher their chances of survival. We have had more recoveries than deaths on the ward. The first recovery was a real celebration – it gave us strength to continue working.
 Safety is paramount but working with the protective clothing is exhausting in the heat. On very hot days, you sweat so much that you can’t keep the equipment on in the ward for more than 30 to 45 minutes. 
It has been very hard for us: there is a lot of stigma attached to working with the virus and some people have been rejected by their families. But as people become more aware and realise Ebola need not be fatal, things will change.
Dr Jacob Mufunda, World Health Organisation representative, Freetown, Sierra Leone
One of the positive outcomes of the emergency ministerial meeting is that it aligned our actions. Until then, each country had been dealing with the disease individually. Yet the epicentre of the disease is the border area triangle between Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea. The people living in this region are the Kissi. They speak the same language in each country and they move across borders along traditional routes.
So WHO is very clear on this issue: closing borders would make no difference. What is crucial is that we keep focusing on surveillance and that we harmonise our approach across countries because if you use different languages and different practices to tackle the disease and approach these people, who should they believe?
We want to encourage countries in West Africa to send their medical staff to affected countries so that they get hands-on experience. That way, if the virus spreads, they’ll be better equipped to tackle the epidemic.


 Credit: Rachel Banning-Lover

Mohamed Fofana, training manager with ActionAid, Kono District, Sierra Leone
We have just finished training 24 community outreach workers to raise awareness about Ebola. A key consideration in recruiting participants was that they are influential in their community so that when they go back, people listen to them.
The training focused on the origins of the disease, its transmission, the signs and symptoms and what to do if you suspect a case of Ebola. We heavily emphasised the fact that transmission can happen through a dead body because in Sierra Leone, it is customary to pay your respect to the dead, to wash the body, touch it or keep clothes or sheets of the deceased, but these practices do not conform with Ebola prevention.
If they suspect that someone is infected or has died from Ebola, outreach workers know that they should immediately notify the authorities. They must also refer the patient to the nearest health facility or make sure that no one comes into contact with the corpse if the person is dead. A specially-trained burial team will intervene instead.
Dr Bernice Dahn, deputy minister for health services, Monrovia, Liberia 
Our biggest challenge is denial. People do not believe that Ebola is happening. There is a lot of fear and panic too and we’re struggling to get people to come into hospital when we suspect they are infected. The key for us is to align our traditional leaders with medical and health ministry officials: our society holds them in high esteem so if they are on board, they can educate their communities.
Dealing with Ebola is labour intensive. Case detection is a door-to-door process; once identified, patients have to be taken to isolation wards; and then we need to trace all the people they have been in contact with. We also need special burial teams to handle dead bodies. Sorting out the logistics for all these interventions has stretched us.
The difficulty is that the situation keeps evolving so we’ve had to modify our response needs: our initial strategy cost was $1.2 million but as the epidemic has progressed, we estimate we’ll now need $6.5 million. We’re still working within the constraints of the initial budget but the international community has been very supportive, so I am hopeful that we’ll be able to tackle this epidemic within the shortest possible timeframe.
Read more stories like this: 
• Tackling the Ebola epidemic in west Africa: why we need a holistic approach
• Lassa fever: why there are more public health questions than answers
• 7 reasons why Sierra Leone is winning against neglected tropical diseases
Join the community of global development professionals and experts. Become a GDPN member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox













Sign up for the Guardian Today
Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
Sign up for the daily email







Print this
Share
Contact us




Send to a friend





Sender's name



Recipient's email address





Your IP address will be logged







Share



				Short link for this page:
				http://gu.com/p/4vvcf




StumbleUpon
				



reddit
				



Tumblr
				



Digg
				



LinkedIn
				



del.icio.us
				



Facebook
				



Twitter
				








Contact us





					                        Report errors or inaccuracies: userhelp@theguardian.com


											Letters for publication should be sent to: guardian.letters@theguardian.com






					If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com


					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000




Advertising guide


License/buy our content








Global development professionals network


Global health ·															

Malaria and infectious diseases ·															

humanitarians 

World news


Guinea ·															

Sierra Leone ·															

Liberia ·															

World Health Organisation ·															

Ghana ·															

Africa ·															

Epidemics ·															

Ebola 

Society


Health 

Science


Infectious diseases 

Global development


Humanitarian response 

More 			features
	




More on this story







 

 Doctors on the Ebola frontline: 'You can see the fear when they look at us' 

 Medical aid workers working in west Africa spoke to the Guardian about their experiences treating the disease 


 

 Soldiers deployed in Sierra Leone and Liberia to contain Ebola outbreak 



 

 Ebola outbreak: doctor who treated Nigeria's first victim contracts virus 



 


 Liberia struggles to bury victims as communities reject Ebola burial sites – video 



 

 The Guardian view on Ebola and the need for new drugs 



 

 Ebola rages in Africa as west agonises over ethics of vaccine and drug testing 








		
	        Partner zone
    












Click here for more from our tropical health and malaria hub sponsor, Malaria Consortium















Share




Tweet this








Email































Comments

Click here to join the discussion.
We can't load the discussion on theguardian.com because you don't have JavaScript enabled.



















		
	        Partner zone
    











Click here for more from our tropical health and malaria hub sponsor, Malaria Consortium










		
	        Hubs
    








Adolescent girls







Cities in development







Climate change







Communications







Dealing with risk







Diaspora-driven development







Farming and food security







Financial inclusionNEW







Global health innovation







Global public leaders series







Impact and effectiveness







Improving nutrition







Renewable energy: access and investment







Students







Tackling youth unemployment







Technology







Tropical health and malaria



















Visa: Financial inclusion hub









Interactive map: which country has the fewest ATMs?


											                        
                                    			47 years on from the invention of the ATM, where will you still struggle to find one?







Is India's new financial inclusion strategy already outdated?


											                        
                                    			Plans to extend the reach of traditional bank seems so old-fashioned. Wouldn't mobile money be quicker and cheaper, asks Esha Chhabra











Sustainable business courses












											                        
                                    			Practical half-day courses from the Guardian on sustainability communications, brand, collaboration and leadership. Book now.









Jobs of the week



























































License/buy our content

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Privacy policy

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Terms of service

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
US advertising

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
A - Z index

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
About us



© 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.





























































