#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja - YNaijaYNaija#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja - YNaijaYNaija






Home | About Us | Contact Us











 


















Home
News
Opinion
Politics
Entertainment
More

30 days
Around the Web
#BringBackOurGirls
Celebrity
Ebola
Economy
Fashion & Style
Life
Long read
Odd World
Sports
Technology


 




 













Tweet














#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja
Posted 1 month  ago










by Azubuike Azikiwe
 
A 19-year-old Law student at the Ahmadu Bello University has been quarantined after being suspected of carrying the Ebola virus disease in Kaduna.
Bilyaminu Umar, the spokesman for the, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, confirmed the case on Monday, 1 September.
He revealed that the student was diagnosed at ABUTH, Shika, Zaria.
He said, “Yes, there was a case of a suspected Ebola patient. He is with the Faculty of Law, ABU, Zaria and will be placed on isolation. I am out of town, but will confirm details on my return from a trip.”
Meanwhile, a patient suspected of having the Ebola virus disease died in Abuja, FCT on Friday, 29 August, after being admitted on Thursday, 28 August.
Asokoro District Hospital released a statement confirming the death, while also reassuring the public that all those who came in contact with the deceased are under surveillance.



Article Tags:Abuja · Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital · Asokoro · Asokoro District Hospital · Bilyaminu Umar · death · Ebola · kaduna · quarantine · surveillance · Zaria

Article Categories: Ebola · News








 Recent Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)






  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members






  
No time to waste: Desmond Elliot and Tony Tetuila take baby steps to political office (PHOTOS)






  
Buhari and Atiku are failures | APC will be relevant in 2019 | GEJ is being pressured to contest – Doyin Okupe had a lot to say in new address






  
“Kiss and make up” – President Jonathan urges Perm. secretaries and Ministers to work in harmony






  
Finally, she get’s something wrong: Beyonce’s fans are not happy with new hairstyle






  
Not yet Uhuru: Fred Ajudua still has a case to answer despite High court acquittal









 Related Posts


  
Cow thief: Man handed 6-month jail sentence for stealing 34 cows







  
Unlock the secrets of your city with Heineken







 Popular Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)







  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members







condolence







  
Opinion: Jungle Justice: I am with Aluu Community











Previous Article  This is not good: Big Brother Africa postponed after fire incident 
Next Article   Kolapo Olapoju: Memoir of a long distance relationship {Episode 2} (30 Days, 30 Voices)




 Comments




















Jeez get ur facts straight. I think I just read the words ‘suspected Ebola patient’ there…as opposed to your comment on ‘diagnosed with ebola’. Just Dnt add to what d man said dere.


joel
September 2, 2014 8:49 pm







I’m a student of ABU and currently in school. We just got information that the test result of the boy suspected of Ebola sent from Lagos reads that HE IS ONLY SUFFERING FROM LEUKAEMIA. The last rumour about using salt and hot water resulted to the death of about 3 and 20 hospitalized. After this occurence, we should be careful on how we throw non-factive informations to the public.


Michael
September 3, 2014 12:17 pm












Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Google+.





Loading Facebook Comments ...


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Facebook.










 Subscribe to YNaija

Enter your email address to subscribe to YNaija and receive notifications of new posts by email.









 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 














 



                        YNaija © 2014            
        
















            
                                
            Menu Title                
                        
        
Home
Fashion & Style
Entertainment & Lifestyle
Politics & Advocacy
Opinion & Reviews
Life
Rubbin’ Minds
About
Where to Buy Y!
Contact Us
Subscribe
Be A Rep
Merchandise
What is Y!
Advertisers













 



























