 | Eight Killed in Attack on Ebola Team in Guinea | Eight Killed in Attack on Ebola Team in Guinea



x


Search for:



 





October 15, 2014
Home
Ebola
World News
US News
Business
NASA News
Politics
Health
 

Twitter
Google+
E-mail













Main menu
Skip to content
Contact
About Us








Posted on September 19, 2014  by  Dan Mullin 
Eight Killed in Attack on Ebola Team in Guinea


Eight people, including three journalists, were killed in an attack on a team trying to educate locals on the risks of the Ebola virus in a remote area of southeastern Guinea, a government spokesman said on Thursday. “The eight bodies were found in the village latrine. Three of them had their throats slit,” Damantang Albert Camara told Reuters. The killings are an example of what aid officials have been saying: the Ebola epidemic, in which more than 2,600 people have died, is disrupting not only public health but society in general. “We have seen so many patients die. And they die alone, terrified, and without their loved ones at their side,” Jackson K.P. Naimah of Doctors Without Borders, on Monrovia, Liberia told a United Nations Security Council emergency session earlier Thursday.
“This is likely the greatest peacetime challenge that the United Nations and its agencies have ever faced,” WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan told the UN. “This is not just an outbreak. This is not just a public health crisis. This is a social crisis, a humanitarian crisis, an economic crisis, and a threat to national security well beyond the outbreak zones.” The Associated Press reported that shoppers in Sierra Leone were rushing to stock up on food ahead of a three-day nationwide shutdown. The country’s 6 million people must stay home while volunteers search house-to-house for Ebola victims in hiding and distribute soap.




 

Ebola 


Tagged abola, abola disease, Damantang Albert Camara, Doctors Without Borders, Ebola, ebola america, ebola cure, Ebola Dallas, ebola news, Ebola Outbreak, ebola sick, ebola symptoms, ebola texas, ebola vaccine, Ebola Virus, Guinea, Margaret Chan, Sierra Leone, United Nations Security Council, what is ebola? 


Post navigation
← Previous Next →

 




More News

Hollywood Gossip
NBA Updates
The Urban TMZ


Updates On EbolaAn Essay For Action Against Ebola
2nd HCW Test Positive for Ebola in Dallas
Ebola survivor infects wife to death
Head of World Bank Makes Ebola His Mission
Contact
About Us
 




 
 






			©                          Amazon.com Widgets








