The Gates Foundation Donates Over R500 million To Fight Ebola  | SA Breaking NewsThe Gates Foundation Donates Over R500 million To Fight Ebola  | SA Breaking News
















About UsAdvertise With UsContact UsPrivacy PolicyTerms & Conditions




Home
Africa
World
Politics
Crime
Business
Entertainment
Technology
Opinions
Multimedia
 










 









Home » Africa » The Gates Foundation Donates Over R500 million To Fight Ebola

									The Gates Foundation Donates Over R500 million To Fight Ebola								

									Posted by: Jamie-Leigh Matroos   
									Tags: 
									donations, Ebola, Gates foundation, Who   
									Posted date: 
									September 11, 2014 									 | 
									No comment 






The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation on Thursday announced it would donate $50 million (About R550 million) to support the scale up of emergency efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and interrupt transmission of the deadly virus.
“We are working urgently with our partners to identify the most effective ways to help them save lives now and stop transmission of this deadly disease,” said CEO of the Gates Foundation, Sue Desmond-Hellmann.
“We also want to accelerate the development of treatments; vaccines and diagnostics that can help end this epidemic and prevent future outbreaks.”
Donations have been pouring in since the World Health Organisation (WHO) said at least $600 million (about R6.4 billion) was needed to fight the worst outbreak in history.
American and European officials have donated over $250 million (about R2.6 billion) to help fight the virus.
More than 1 900 people have died after they contracted the deadly haemorrhagic fever since the outbreak began in West Africa earlier this year. According to the latest WHO statistics, over 40% of the deaths have occurred in three weeks leading up to 3 September.
The organisation warned the disease was racing ahead of control efforts in the affected countries, and as many as 20 000 people could die before the virus can be brought under control.
Image Source: Doctors Without Borders

More Stories From SABreakingNews:
Judge Masipa To Rule On Pistorius’ Fate: Click to Read More…
Watch: President Obama Lays Out US Strategy To Destroy IS Militants: Click to Read More…
#OscarTrial: It’s Time For Action Against Domestic Violence: Click to Read More…
















 


Share This




























































Related Posts



Zille Requests Donations To Continue Spy Tapes BattleThe Democratic Alliance (DA) has asked for financial help from “fellow South Africans” to pursue its case for corruption charges against President Jacob Zuma to be reinstated. Party leader Helen Zille reached out to party...						      		
						    	


EFF Used Donations From Members To Pay Election DepositJohannesburg – “This money comes from these fighters you see here. We have done everything in our power to register,” Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema, told reporters in front of the Independent...						      		
						    	














Search for:




 













Recent PostsThai Woman Sets Herself Alight Over Debt A 52-year-old Thai woman doused herself with fuel and set herself on fire in a Bangkok...Mozambique Heads To The PollsMozambicans went to the polls on Wednesday, to vote in what is arguably the most...Pistorius Refuses To Take Back Money He Paid SteenkampsParalympian Oscar Pistorius does not want the Steenkamp family to re-pay him the money...Woman Gets 12 years For Stabbing Boyfriend To DeathA 20-year-old woman who stabbed her boyfriend in the chest has been sentenced to 12 years...Police Continue Search For Missing UFS StudentPolice are searching for a third-year student from the University of Free State (UFS)... 

Twitter
Another journalist to serve time in Egypt http://t.co/Ldz6zgVXmv about 10 minutes ago19) Win a Summer Wardrobe Makeover with MrPrice! Details here http://t.co/U9PW2qkSs2 about 20 minutes agoPolice deploy choppers and dogs in search for missing UFS student http://t.co/VbjfSgWIvs about 20 minutes ago19) Win R200 Airtime! Take our Reader Survey Here: http://t.co/mtWyDxr1B5 about 29 minutes agoMan trapped in industrial textile machine http://t.co/UCR6kolzSC about 30 minutes ago
 Follow @sabreakingnews




 






















				

﻿
		
 



 
RSS Feeds
Subscribe to our news feed and receive instant news.


RSS Feeds
Subscribe to our alternative news feed and receive instant news.


Twitter
Follow SABreakingNews on Twitter!






About Us
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions






 


				COPYRIGHT NOTICE: © Copyright 2012-2013, SA Breaking News, a part of Incredibility (Pty) LTD. The copyright in the literary and artistic works contained in this online news publication and its other related and connected websites, belongs exclusively to Incredibility (PTY) LTD unless otherwise stated.

The reproduction of any content or material contained in this online news publication is expressly reserved to the publisher, Incredibility (PTY) LTD, under Section 12(7) of the Copyright Act of 1978. Reliance on the information contained in the online news publications and other related content published on this website is done at your own risk and subject to our “terms and conditions”.			
				



 














