 Liberia Postpones Elections in Light of Ebola Outbreak | News | teleSUR Liberia Postpones Elections in Light of Ebola Outbreak | News | teleSUR





 



Reportar Comentarios

Cerrar



Reportar un comentario
Estás reportando este comentario a la redacción

Debes completar todos los campos obligatorios para poder continuar.

 Los campos (*) son obligatorios


¿Por qué quieres reportar este comentario?:


Seleccionar un asunto...
Abuso personal
Ofensivo
Lenguaje inapropiado
Datos erróneos
Spam
Copyrights
Asuntos legales

*



Agrega algo más a tu reporte:



 ENVIAR 
 Cancelar 




 
 

Reportar Comentarios

Cerrar



Tu mensaje ha sido enviado con éxito.

 Cerrar 


 
 
 












Wednesday15OctoberArticle





Log in with:






Register





















Spanish

Home

News


Videos


Multimedia


Opinion


Blogs


I'm the Reporter


Programs


15 October 2014











teleSUR Agenda

Missing Ayotzinapa Students
/english/telesuragenda/Missing-Ayotzinapa-Students-20141014-0077.html


	                		/
	                		Bolivia Decides
/english/telesuragenda/Bolivia-Decides-20141009-0072.html


	                		/
	                		Bolivia in Motion
/english/news/Bolivia-in-Motion-20141007-0033.html


	                		/
	                		Brazil Decides
/english/telesuragenda/Brazil-Decides-20141001-0093.html


Subscribe to the bulletin














The e-mail is not valid

	        	You're successfully subscribed. We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.
	        











 Article 



















Embed code

Video size 560 x 315







Twitter 


Tweets de teleSUR 






















 

 





















News
 > World


 Liberia Postpones Elections in Light of Ebola Outbreak 













Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. (Photo: Reuters).








Published  5 September 2014



















 We Recommend 











Liberian Senate overwhelmingly supported President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf's request.  


On Thursday, Liberia's Senate and President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf jointly decided to postpone the 2014 special senatorial election to December of this year. The decision came as a result of the ongoing concerns about the Ebola outbreak in the country.
In August, the Senate ordered the Joint Committeess of Judiciary, Claims, Petition and Human rights and Authomous Commission and Agencies to hold consultations with an array of government officials regarding electoral postponement.
In a letter to the National Elections Comission (NEC), the Senate said "we note that the holding of Elections in October of 2014 is mandated by the Constitution of Liberia in Article 83 (a).Similarly, the responsibility for the conduct of elections in Liberia is statutorily conferred on the National Elections Commission, which has now explicitly indicated its inability to conduct the Special Senatorial Elections in October of 2014."
The NEC cited the environment of fear and confusion in the wake of Ebola as factors that could potentially undermine the credibility of the country's elections.
The Constitution of Liberia in Chapter IX, Article 86 grants the President powers to "suspend or affect certain rights, freedoms and guarantees contained in the Constitution and exercise such other emergency powers as may be necessary and appropriate to take care of the emergency, subject, however, to the limitations contained in the Chapter."




 0


 0



Tags
Liberia
elections
postponement
Ebola






												
													teleSUR-AllAfrica




											    			by teleSUR/ jc-PV











Related stories








Venezuela Begins Ebola Screening at National Airport





In 60 Seconds: Central America on Alert After 7.4 Earthquake





Brazilian Presidential Candidates Debate the Economy





WHO Warns of 10,000 New Ebola Cases Per Week





Colombia Denies Entry to People Traveling from Ebola-Affected Areas





The Scandals of Brazilian Candidate Aecio Neves





Bolivia Official Results See Morales' Vote Drop to 55%





Economists and Social Organizations Throw Support Behind Rousseff 





Anger Over Inequality Not Enough to Stop Ruling Party Win in Mozambique





Chinese Government Doesn't Want to Set a Precedent Giving in to Protests













Related stories









Venezuela Begins Ebola Screening at National Airport










In 60 Seconds: Central America on Alert After 7.4 Earthquake










Brazilian Presidential Candidates Debate the Economy










WHO Warns of 10,000 New Ebola Cases Per Week










Colombia Denies Entry to People Traveling from Ebola-Affected Areas










The Scandals of Brazilian Candidate Aecio Neves










Bolivia Official Results See Morales' Vote Drop to 55%










Economists and Social Organizations Throw Support Behind Rousseff 










Anger Over Inequality Not Enough to Stop Ruling Party Win in Mozambique










Chinese Government Doesn't Want to Set a Precedent Giving in to Protests

















Bulletin
Get our news bulletins straight to your inbox













The e-mail is not valid




Bulletin
You're successfully subscribed.
We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.






































Videos






















Comment

0




Sign In or Register to leave a comment, use the forums and more

Sign In
Register


Or log in with:

















Post with no comments.
































Back to TopLive


Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Full Site
















About teleSUR
About Us
Contacts
Team
Jobs teleSUR
Terms of Use
teleSUR Apps
Satellite Coverage
RSS
Public Procurement


Channels
Latin America
World
Sports
Culture
Opinion
Programs


Services
Multimedia
Blog
Join Us
Videos
Live Tv


Subscribe to our news bulletins













The e-mail is not valid
You're successfully subscribed. We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.






© 2013 TeleSUR
La nueva Televisión del Sur C.A. (TVSUR) RIF: G-20004500-0





