 Ebola outbreak: Congo becomes fifth country with confirmed cases | World news | The Guardian  Ebola outbreak: Congo becomes fifth country with confirmed cases | World news | The Guardian 







Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to comments [c]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]




Edition:
UK
US
AU






Your activity
Email subscriptions
Account details
Linked services
Sign out



Profile


Beta




























News


US


World


Sports


Comment


Culture


Business


Money


Environment


Science


Travel


Tech


Media


Life & style


Data







News




World news




Democratic Republic of the Congo









Ebola outbreak: Congo becomes fifth country with confirmed cases
Health minister says up to 15 people may have died but virus is not linked to epidemic that has spread through west Africa






Share




Tweet this











Email







David Smith, Africa correspondent	






The Guardian,
				            Monday 25 August 2014 10.44 EDT




Jump to comments (…)





The Ebola virus was found in two patients out of eight tested for the virus in Democratic Republic of Congo. Photograph: Frederick Murphy/CDC/PA


The World Health Organisation has sent protective equipment for medical staff to the Democratic Republic of the Congo after it became the fifth African country this year to suffer a deadly outbreak of Ebola."The ministry of health has declared an outbreak and we are treating it as such," Tarik Jasarevic, a WHO spokesman, told Reuters in Geneva on Monday.Congo declared on Sunday that Ebola had been identified in its northern Équateur province after two patients tested positive for the virus, but the health minister, Felix Kabange Numbi, denied any link to the epidemic raging in west Africa.Officials believe Ebola has killed 13 other people in the region, including five health workers. Kabange said 11 were ill and in isolation and 80 contacts were being traced, and the Djera area would be placed under quarantine. Djera is about 750 miles (1,200km) from Congo's capital, Kinshasa, and 375 miles from the provincial capital, Mbandaka.Ebola has swept through Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Nigeria, resulting in 1,427 deaths and 2,615 infections since March. But Kabange said the Congolese epidemic "has nothing to do with the one in west Africa".One of the two cases that tested positive was for the Sudanese strain of the virus, he explained, while the other was a mixture of the Sudanese and the Zaire strain – the most dangerous. The virus in west Africa is the Zaire strain. 


				A Liberian soldier scans people for signs of Ebola infection as part of quarantine measures in Monrovia. Photograph: Abbas Dulleh/AP
			

Ebola was first identified in 1976 near the Ebola river in Congo and this is the seventh outbreak since.  "The experience acquired during the six previous epidemics of Ebola will contribute to the containing of this illness," Kabange said.Médecins Sans Frontières said it was sending a crew to help handle patients in the Djera area.A Liberian doctor treated with an experimental Ebola drug, ZMapp, died late on Sunday, the country's information minister said yesterday.Dr Abraham Borbor, the deputy chief medical doctor at Liberia's largest hospital, had received the untested drug after it was given to two American health workers, who survived after receiving medical care in the US.A Spanish missionary also received the treatment but died. Two health workers are still in treatment, and there were "signs of hope", said Kabange.Japan has said it is ready to offer another experimental drug developed by a Japanese company to help stop the epidemic. Avigan was approved as an anti-influenza drug in Japan in March, and its developer Fujifilm Holdings said it had received inquiries about its use against Ebola. "Our country is prepared to provide the yet-to-be approved drug in cooperation with the manufacturer if the WHO requests," said chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga.










Sign up for the Guardian Today
Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
Sign up for the daily email







Print this
Share
Contact us




Send to a friend





Sender's name



Recipient's email address





Your IP address will be logged







Share



				Short link for this page:
				http://gu.com/p/4x2cz




StumbleUpon
				



reddit
				



Tumblr
				



Digg
				



LinkedIn
				



del.icio.us
				



Facebook
				



Twitter
				








Contact us





					                        Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@theguardian.com


											Letters for publication should be sent to: guardian.letters@theguardian.com






					If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com


					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000




Advertising guide


License/buy our content








Article history



About this article



Ebola outbreak: Congo becomes fifth country with confirmed cases
		   		    			    										This article was published on
							the Guardian website
							at 10.44 EDT on Monday 25 August 2014. 
					   	A version appeared  on p3 of the Main section section of 					   	the Guardian
					   	on Monday 25 August 2014. 
					   	It was last modified at 07.20 EDT on Tuesday 26 August 2014.
						  				   								




World news


Democratic Republic of the Congo ·															

Africa ·															

Ebola ·															

Epidemics ·															

World Health Organisation 

Society


Health 

More 			news
	




More on this story







 

 British Ebola patient seems 'pretty well' and has regained appetite, says father 

 Will Pooley remains in isolation unit at Royal Free hospital in London after being evacuated from Sierra Leone eight days ago 


 

 Hopes of Ebola drug breakthrough in ZMapp trials 



 

 First Ebola case confirmed in Senegal 



 

 Ebola cases in west Africa could rise to 20,000 says WHO 



 

 Ebola epidemic will get worse before it gets better, top US health body warns 



 

 GSK to begin testing its Ebola vaccine on humans 



 

 Ebola claims life of third doctor in Sierra Leone 



 

 Ebola epidemic takes toll on business in quarantine zones and across Africa 



 

 Will Pooley: 'At the start there was the horror of Ebola, now it's a bit routine' 



 

 British Ebola patient Will Pooley taking experimental drug ZMapp 



 

 Ebola: worker infected at WHO laboratory in Sierra Leone 



 

 Infected British nurse airlifted from Ebola zone spoke of joy at seeing patients recover 



 

 Liberian doctor in Ebola drug trial dies 



 

 Ebola in Britain, is it time to panic? 



 

 Ebola: research team says migrating fruit bats responsible for outbreak 



 

 If God saved an American doctor with Ebola, why did he let 1,200 Africans die? 



 

 Ebola: life on and death on the frontline 



 


 I survived Ebola - video 










Share




Tweet this








Email































Comments

Click here to join the discussion.
We can't load the discussion on theguardian.com because you don't have JavaScript enabled.




















On the Guardian today




World news
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus



World news
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates



World news
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus



World news
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war



Technology
Feminist games critic cancels talk after terror threat



Science
Google Glass user treated for internet addiction caused by the device










		
	        Today's best video
    








John Lydon on Russell Brand's call for revolution: 'idiotic'


											                        
                                    			Former Sex Pistol John Lydon, aka Johnny Rotten, is interviewed by Polly Toynbee, and pours scorn on comedian Russell Brand's call for people not to vote
		







'Reeva's death ruined our family'


											                        
                                    			Reeva Steenkamp's cousin gives an emotional testimony at the Oscar Pistorius sentencing
		






The internet is after your job


											                        
                                    			Is your job under threat? And what can you do about it?
		







Red card! Boris Johnson trips child


											                        
                                    			London mayor trips a small child during a football match outside City Hall
		











On World news





Most viewed


Latest




Last 24 hours



1. 
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus


2. 
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus


3. 
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war


4. 
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates


5. 
Reeva Steenkamp’s family reveal heartbreak at Pistorius sentencing


More most viewed




Last 24 hours



1. 
Sainsbury’s kiss-in held after lesbian couple told they were ‘disgusting’


2. 
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates


3. 
Ebola-infected nurse's dog quarantined at decommissioned US naval base


4. 
UK landlords refuse to house student from Sierra Leone over Ebola fears


5. 
Camel kills American owner at wildlife park in Mexico resort


All today's stories












Sponsored feature

































		
	        Today in pictures
    








BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures


											                        
                                    			Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London
		






Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot


											                        
                                    			A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them
		






Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures


											                        
                                    			Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia
		














License/buy our content

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Privacy policy

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Terms of service

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
US advertising

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
A - Z index

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
About us



© 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.









Share




Tweet this

































































