
	Initiative for emergency Ebola research formed by Wellcome Trust, U.K. government | CenterWatch News Online

	Initiative for emergency Ebola research formed by Wellcome Trust, U.K. government | CenterWatch News Online










News and views on the clinical trials industry




CenterWatch Home  | 
Advertise  | 
Contact  






 

Advanced Search



  Subscribe to or Manage e-Alerts
To receive weekly headlines: 

 Unsubscribe








Study Conduct
CROs/Service Providers
Technology Solutions
Ethics/Regulatory
R&D Trends
Drug Sponsors
Awards & Advancement
Clinical Intelligence















« Return to News | R&D Trends


Initiative for emergency Ebola research formed by Wellcome Trust, U.K. government
Friday, August 22, 2014 11:59 AM


A $10.8 million emergency funding package for research to contain the Ebola epidemic in West Africa and future outbreaks of infectious disease has been initiated by the U.K-based Wellcome Trust and the U.K. Department for International Development, administered by Enhancing Learning and Research for Humanitarian Assistance (ELRHA).
The emergency Ebola initiative, under the Research for Health in Humanitarian Crises (R2HC) program, will support research that can swiftly begin to investigate new approaches to treating, preventing and containing the disease, during the current epidemic in West Africa. It also will support research into the ethical challenges of testing experimental medicines during epidemics.
Its goals are to identify clinical and public health interventions, including drugs and vaccines with the potential to contribute to tackling the present crisis in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Nigeria, and to inform how future epidemics of Ebola and other infectious diseases are handled.
Expert teams from around the world are being invited to submit research proposals to better inform the management of Ebola outbreaks. This includes research that could produce evidence to help tackle the current outbreak.
Proposals will be reviewed immediately to enable research to start as soon as possible.
International Development Secretary Justine Greening said, “We are launching an emergency call for research to strengthen what we know about Ebola and how it spreads. This will help us better equip those working on the ground so they can tackle the outbreak as effectively as possible and prevent more people contracting this terrible disease. This work, supported by the U.K., should also draw lessons for the global community on how to deal with future outbreaks of Ebola and other infectious diseases.”
Funding from the R2HC initiative will be awarded to researchers who can provide strong evidence and analysis on the disease in areas including anthropology, clinical management, diagnosis, disease control and prevention, ethics, health systems, social mobilization, surveillance and treatment.
The initial call for proposals closes Sept. 8.
As well as funding emergency Ebola research, the Wellcome Trust is making a further long-term commitment to African health through a $66.3 million program of support for excellence in African research over five years. The investment, which marks a step change in the Trust’s activity in Africa, will support the continent to develop a world-class medical research base so it is better equipped to investigate and tackle its greatest health challenges.
The investment will launch Developing Excellence in Leadership, Training and Science Africa (DELTAS Africa), which has a long-term vision of developing a new generation of outstanding African health researchers. The initiative will provide extended support for programs that equip sub-Saharan African researchers to conduct world-leading research that addresses the continent’s health priorities, including emerging and endemic infections, persistent threats such as HIV, TB and malaria, and the growing challenge of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, stroke, cancer and mental health.
The Wellcome Trust also established a strategic partnership with the Dangote Foundation, an African-based international philanthropic organization, to support further Ebola research.
Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust, said, “The Wellcome Trust is investing today in a package of research that can make a difference to Africa in the short, the medium and the long term. Measures to contain, treat and prevent diseases such as Ebola can be evaluated only in the context of epidemics like this one, which is why support for research is needed immediately. What we learn also could change the way we approach future outbreaks, providing us with tested tools and techniques that were not available to public health authorities this time.”




			Share:&nbsp 
			 
			 
			 
			 
			















CLINICAL TRIAL RESOURCES
Search:

White Papers
Job Listings

NEWS ONLINE ARCHIVE
Browse by:

Date»

2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007


Region»

U.S.
Europe
Asia
Emerging Markets
Global


Company Index
Search

















October 13
First Sunshine Act data posted online; many cite errors, lack of context to help consumers understand payments
In appreciation: Felix Gyi will be remembered for his passion, leadership and desire to educate, pay it forward
Already a subscriber?Log in to your digital subscription.
Subscribe to CWWeekly.



October
CROs driving changes in patient recruitmentData- and tech-aided enrollment services a competitive advantage
Trials with in-home nurses poised to growHigher expense, but may improve recruitment and retention for select trials
Already a subscriber?Log in to your digital subscription.
Purchase the October issue.
Subscribe toThe CenterWatch Monthly.



September
Today's fastest, most economical sponsorsStandout sponsors reveal how they shorten regulatory, clinical cycle times
From the trenches: Sites' eye view of state of the industryCW’s first site focus groups uncover frustration with 'progress,' but a passion for their mission
Already a subscriber?Log in to your digital subscription.
Purchase the September issue.
Subscribe toThe CenterWatch Monthly.




centerwatch.com/jobwatch
Featured Jobs
 
 




More Jobs
















         






About CenterWatch News Online: Developed by CenterWatch, the trusted experts and recognized leaders in clinical research news and analysis, CenterWatch News Online (formerly Clinical Trials Today) is a one-stop, comprehensive resource for clinical research professionals spanning all sectors of the clinical trials industry.
Order Custom PDF Reprints: CenterWatch offers custom PDF reprints of any new or archived article appearing on CenterWatch News Online. This document can be posted on your company's Intranet or web site or used in corporate marketing promotions.To purchase a custom PDF reprint, contact Sales at sales@centerwatch.com or (617) 948-5100.
Contact Us: Editorial | Advertise | View Media Guide


More Resources From CenterWatch

Publications:
Newsletters | 
                    White Papers |
                    Industry Analysis & Special Reports
Training & Education: 
Clinical Research Guides  | 
                    SOPs | 
                    Patient Education Resources
Online Services:
Research Center and 
                    Industry Provider Profiles |
					Clinical Trials Data Library |
                    Content Licensing | Drugs in Clinial Trials | JobWatch | Clinical Trials | TrialWatch for Sites and Sponsors/CROs







Privacy | 
Glossary | 
Site Map


Copyright © 1995-2014 CenterWatch.




