BBC News - Ebola outbreak: Sierra Leone lockdown declared 'success'BBC News - Ebola outbreak: Sierra Leone lockdown declared 'success'












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























22 September 2014
Last updated at 19:11


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola outbreak: Sierra Leone lockdown declared 'success'


Streets in the capital Freetown have been largely deserted during the three-day lockdown


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 A three-day curfew aimed at containing the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone has been declared a success by authorities.
They say more than a million households were surveyed and 130 new cases discovered.
Sierra Leone is one of the countries worst affected by the outbreak, with nearly 600 of the almost 2,800 total deaths recorded so far.
Some health groups have criticised the lockdown, saying it would destroy trust between patients and doctors.
Nearly all of the deaths in the world's worst Ebola outbreak have been recorded in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
The World Health Organization (WHO) says the situations in Senegal and Nigeria have now been "pretty much contained". 
According to the UN agency, the number of overall deaths from Ebola has risen to 2,793 and the disease remains "a public health emergency of international concern".
The deadly virus is transmitted through sweat, blood and saliva, and there is no proven cure.


A Spanish priest who contracted the virus whilst working in Sierra Leone was flown back to Spain for treatment

In other developments:

 Liberia, the country that has been worst hit by the outbreak, has announced a four-fold increase in the number of beds for Ebola patients
 Schools in Nigeria are reopening on Monday, after the summer break was extended for fear of the spread of Ebola, but teaching unions want the government to provide more safety measures 
 A Spanish priest who was diagnosed with the virus whilst working in Sierra Leone was flown back to a military airbase in Spain on Monday for treatment in a Spanish hospital
 A second deployment of US troops arrived in Liberia on Sunday as part of a mission that will see 3,000 soldiers helping the Liberian health services in their response to the outbreak



BBC Ebola broadcast:
The BBC World Service is launching a special programme containing the latest news about the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.
The first edition will be at 19.50 GMT on Monday 22 September and the programme will continue each weekday.
Ebola virus: busting the myths 





Police roadblocks were set up in Sierra Leone to enforce the curfew

In Sierra Leone, head of the Emergency Operations Centre Stephen Gaojia told the BBC that the lockdown was largely successful, and the compliance and receptiveness of Sierra Leoneans was "overwhelming".
He said 130 new cases had been confirmed, which would have helped spread the virus if they had remained undetected. Results were still outstanding on 39 suspected cases.
About 100 dead bodies believed to be of Ebola victims, which could otherwise have been secretly buried without homes being quarantined, were retrieved and buried, officials say.
Bodies of Ebola victims are highly contagious and their swift burial is considered key to containing the disease.
Many people have been reluctant to seek treatment for Ebola, on the basis that there is no cure, even though about half of those infected have recovered with the help of rest and rehydration.


Normally bustling streets in the capital Freetown were deserted from Friday onwards



Spanish priest Manuel Garcia Viejo (l) was working at a hospital in Lunsar, Sierra Leone, before becoming infected

The BBC's Umaru Fofana in the Sierra Leone capital Freetown says health officials have admitted that the lockdown has exposed the country's inadequate response capability.
Ambulances are in short supply, as are the isolation wards to look after patients, with almost all Ebola treatment centres confined to the east of the country, he says. 
There are also too few teams available to bury the dead, partly because of the social stigma attached to the role. 
The curfew in Sierra Leone came into force on Friday morning, with the country's six million inhabitants confined to their homes.
Around 30,000 medical volunteers travelled to affected neighbourhoods to find patients and distribute soap.
Continue reading the main story






Ebola deaths in West Africa
            
                             Up to 12 October


4,493
Deaths -probable, confirmed and suspected



(Includes one death in US)




2,458 Liberia 


843 Guinea 


1183 Sierra Leone 


8 Nigeria 


Source: WHO

Getty




School strike delayed
In Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, teachers' union spokesman Emmanuel Hwande Ora told the BBC that the threat of a strike has been suspended.
However, the union urged the government to introduce more safety controls in schools to prevent the spread of Ebola.
The BBC's Will Ross in Nigeria says people are still on high alert, so students and staff queued up to have their temperatures taken outside the school gates before the new term began.  
Eight people have died in Nigeria out of 20 who have contracted the disease, but no new cases have been discovered for 10 days.



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Spread by body fluids, such as blood and saliva
 Current outbreak has mortality rate of about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no proven vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery







More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch











From other news sites


Yahoo! News UK and Ireland  Experts advise against Ebola travel ban 1 hr ago


Reuters UK  UPDATE 2-WHO experts advise against travel or trade bans on Ebola-hit Africa 4 hrs ago


Telegraph  Ebola: 150 new cases found during Sierra Leone lockdown 6 hrs ago


Kenya Broadcasting Corporation  Sierra Leone Ebola lockdown ends 7 hrs ago


The Guardian Nigeria  Ebola crisis: Sierra Leone lockdown declared "success" 11 hrs ago


About these results







Related Internet links


WHO



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites







Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












