Ebola Crisis: Head of World Health Organisation Warns of Global Catastrophe as Epidemic Spirals Out of ControlEbola Crisis: Head of World Health Organisation Warns of Global Catastrophe as Epidemic Spirals Out of Control






UK EDITION
						



AUSTRALIA EDITION

CHINA EDITION
GERMANY EDITION
INDIA EDITION
ITALY EDITION

JAPAN EDITION

U.K. EDITION
U.S. EDITION




WEDNESDAY, 15TH OCTOBER, 2014



Sign in
Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
RSS
Search











International Business Times UK






International Business Times UK


News



UK
World
Politics
Crime
Science
Entertainment




NASA's Longest Mars Simulation to Date: Three Men, Three Women Begin 8-Month Stay in a Dome in Hawaii
Kesha Accuses Music Producer Dr Luke of Rape, Sexual and Emotional Abuse
Barcelona Star Gerard Pique: Shakira's Husband Criticises Spanish Police After His Brother 'is Fined'
Google Nexus Player Android TV Set-Top Box Wades into Streaming and Gaming Arena




Africa
Asia Pacific
Europe
Middle East
US




Business



Companies
Markets
Finance
Regulation




Coca-Cola Looking to Add Some Pop into the Mayor of London's 'Boris Bikes' Cycle Hire Scheme
BlackRock Fixed Income Assets Boosted by Bill Gross Pimco Departure
High Flying Pilots Beat Lawyers to Become UK's Top Earners
Colombian Farmers Take on Oil Giant BP in UK Court




Economy



Israel Slides into Deflation as Domestic Growth Falls
UK Could Trim Borrowing by £10bn Thanks to Ministerial Accounting Error
High Flying Pilots Beat Lawyers to Become UK's Top Earners
Why UK Poverty Rates Will Worsen Without Significant Wage Increases
North England Gaining 1,000 New Homes and 2,400 Jobs on Leeds Project




Technology



Smartphones
Tablets
Cyber-Security
Internet
Games
Reviews




Google Nexus Player Android TV Set-Top Box Wades into Streaming and Gaming Arena
Italian Firm Aims to Solve Global Housing Crisis With 20ft-Tall 3D Printer That Prints Mud Homes
iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3 Confirmed: Specs Leak Reveals Touch ID and Burst Mode Camera
Google Launches Android 5.0 (Lollipop) On Nexus 6, Nexus 9 and Nexus Player




Sport



Football
Tennis
Golf
Cricket




Barcelona Star Gerard Pique: Shakira's Husband Criticises Spanish Police After His Brother 'is Fined'
Steven Gerrard: Liverpool Captain Tells Golden Shoe Winner Luis Suarez He is 'Missed' at Anfield
Ryan Giggs: 'Manchester United Record Signing Angel Di Maria Excites Me'
Christian Eriksen Admits He Needs to Replicate Tottenham Hotspur Form for Denmark






Opinion



Interview
Feature
Reviews
Analysis




Why UK Poverty Rates Will Worsen Without Significant Wage Increases
Nus Ghani: Bricks, Barnardo's and the Quran Made My Conservative Conference One to Remember
Judy Finnigan and Ched Evans Row: Six Rape Myths Exposed
Stephen Foster: WPP Boss Sir Martin Sorrell Has Never Written an Advert in His Life






Video



Special Reports
Interview
Review
Technology
Sports
Entertainment




Play
Amal Alamuddin Clooney: Greece Wants its Marbles Back
Play
Authorities Decontaminate Apartment Complex of Second Texas Healthcare Worker with Ebola
Play
Controversy Still Follows Rembrandt as Civil Servants Strike
Play
Ryan Giggs on All Things Man Utd







 






Science


Health







Ebola Crisis: Head of World Health Organisation Warns of Global Catastrophe as Epidemic Spirals Out of Control





By 
Priya Joshi


August 1, 2014 22:46 BST














Dr. Chan has said that the efforts to contain the spread of the diesease have been "woefully inadequate."AFP / Getty Images
The World Health Organisation has warned that the deadly ebola virus could spread to other countries and become a global crisis.
The warning came from the head of WHO Dr. Margaret Chan, who said that the epidemic in West Africa is spiralling out of control and could potentially cause a catastrophic loss of life.
Speaking at a regional summit of the leaders of Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia in the Guinean capital of Conakry, Dr Chan issued the warning and described the response to the virus so far as "woefully inadequate."
"If the situation continues to deteriorate, the consequences can be catastrophic in terms of lost lives, but also severe socio-economic disruption and a high risk of spread to other countries.
"It is taking place in areas with fluid population movements over porous borders, and it has demonstrated its ability to spread via air travel, contrary to what has been seen in past outbreaks," she explained.
"Cases are occurring in rural areas which are difficult to access, but also in densely populated capital cities. This meeting must mark a turning point in the outbreak response."
She added that the virus, which has claimed 729 lives in four West African countries since February, could be stopped if well managed.
Dr Chan said the virus was affecting a large number of doctors, nurses and other health care workers who have an essential role in curtailing the outbreak. In Liberia, authorities say 28 out of the 45 health workers who have contracted the disease so far have died.
"To date, more than 60 health care workers have lost their lives in helping others. Some international staff are infected. These tragic infections and deaths significantly erode response capacity," she said.
"Constant mutation and adaptation are the survival mechanisms of viruses and other microbes. We must not give this virus opportunities to deliver more surprises."
As part of a $100 million emergency response to the epidemic which has claimed more than 700 lives, hundreds of extra medical personnel will be deployed to the affected region.
The first cases of Ebola emerged in Guinea in March, and later spread across the borders to Liberia and Sierra Leone. Outbreaks of the virus in previous years had occurred in other parts of Africa.
The outbreak, which has been described as the largest ever in the nearly four-decade history of the disease, with 1,201 Ebola cases reported, starts with flu-like symptoms before evolving to cause internal bleeding.
The virus has infected three African capitals with international airports and officials are trying to step up screening of passengers.
Experts say the risk of travellers contracting it is considered low because it requires direct contact with bodily fluids or secretions such as urine, blood, sweat or saliva. Ebola can't be spread like flu through casual contact or breathing in the same air. Patients are contagious only once the disease has progressed to the point they show symptoms, according to the WHO.
Sierra Leone today declared a public health emergency to tackle the deadly virus and called in security forces to quarantine infected areas.
Chan's warning comes as it was confirmed that two American missionaries infected with ebola in West Africa are to be flown back to the US.
Arrangements are being made for a chartered flight to land at Dobbins Air Base in Marietta, Georgia to transport Dr Kent Brantly, 33, and 59-year-old Nancy Writebol from the region.
Two other American peace corps volunteers have been isolated after becoming exposed to ebola in West Africa and are under observation, though neither has shown any symptoms.
One US citizen has already died of the virus
RelatedEbola: World Health Organization to Unveil $100 Million Emergency Response PlanEbola Scare: UK Immigration Staff Jitters, US Prepares Isolation UnitsWest Africa Ebola Outbreak: US Doctor Infected with Deadly Virus Gives Serum to Fellow PatientEbola Outbreak: Australia and New Zealand Brace to Tackle Virus








Recommend
Share



















YOU MIGHT LIKE THISSponsored Content by Taboola




Why advertise with us



TRENDING ARTICLES AND OFFERSAdvertising provided by Adblade






MOST POPULAR






National Union of Students Rejects Motion...





Heroine of Kobani:  Kurdish Female Fighter Rehana...





Ebola 'Caused by Red Cross' and Other Conspiracy...







US Citizen Killed in Riyadh: Americans 'Were...





To Our Countries: Video of Syrian Sisters Singing...





David Bowie Song to Mark 25 Years Since Fall of...








IBTIMES TV


Mute
Unmute

Play

CDC says US to “Surge" its Ebola Response in Africa



Why advertise with us


Opinion




Simon Heffer
“The West tolerated and humoured Putin, long after his ruthless treatment of his opponents”





Nus Ghani
“I was persuaded of the case made by Heathrow over Gatwick”





William Keegan
“I always thought the formation of the eurozone was a mistake”





Stephen Foster
“Sir Martin Sorrell has never written an advert in his life”






								                            READ MORE	                                              
	                    





Ebola Outbreak: Second US Health Worker Tests Positive for Deadly Disease in Texas
Second health worker in Texas diagnosed with tropical virus.





Serbia: Brother of Albania Prime Minister 'Flew Drone' into Belgrade Football Stadium
Players and officials clash during Euro 2016 qualifier after drone flies 'Greater Albania' flag onto pitch





Why Lord Freud Was Right to Question the Minimum Wage for Disabled People
The hyperbolic reaction to Lord Freud's "not worth minimum wage" comments is misguided.






Why advertise with us
 


Dutch Motorbike Gang Joins Kurdish Troops to Fight Isis
Holland's public prosecutor said the actions of No Surrender are legal, for now.





Saudi Arabia: Pro-Democracy Sheikh to be Beheaded and Crucified
Outspoken cleric called for greater rights for disenfranchised Shi'ite minority





Oscar Pistorius at Risk of Prison Rape and AIDS if Jailed, Court Told
Pistorius would have "no protection against exposure to inmates in prison showers"





Ebola 'Caused by Red Cross' and Other Conspiracy Theories
As Ebola claims lives every day, conspiracy theories about the disease proliferate on the internet.





Kazakhstan Stealing the Bride Video Highlights 'Barbaric' Kidnapping Practice
Video shows bride kidnapping tradition still practiced in central Asia, Africa and South America





Adolf Hitler Was a Secret Crystal Meth Addict
The leader of the Nazi party Adolf Hitler had a secret addiction to crystal meth, the drug which is the focus of the TV...





Crabzilla or Bizarre Sand Formation? 'Giant Crustacean' Snapped at Whitstable Harbour
A follower of Quinton Winter's Weird Whitstable site posted the image.








						                            Latest News                                              
                    


NASA's Longest Mars Simulation to Date: Three Men, Three Women Begin 8-Month Stay in a Dome in Hawaii
Kesha Accuses Music Producer Dr Luke of Rape, Sexual and Emotional Abuse
Barcelona Star Gerard Pique: Shakira's Husband Criticises Spanish Police After His Brother 'is Fined'
Google Nexus Player Android TV Set-Top Box Wades into Streaming and Gaming Arena
Steven Gerrard: Liverpool Captain Tells Golden Shoe Winner Luis Suarez He is 'Missed' at Anfield
Planes 'Rented' From Egyptian Government Bomb Libyan City of Benghazi Claim Officials
Italian Firm Aims to Solve Global Housing Crisis With 20ft-Tall 3D Printer That Prints Mud Homes
iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3 Confirmed: Specs Leak Reveals Touch ID and Burst Mode Camera
Ryan Giggs: 'Manchester United Record Signing Angel Di Maria Excites Me'













					                        PICTURE THIS                                      
                





In Pictures: Largest Ever Viking Treasure Trove Discovered by...



Palestinians and Israelis Clash Over Access to Jerusalem's...



Frieze Art Fair 2014: Highlights of This Year's Huge Show in...



Serbia-Albania Euro 2016 Qualifier: Violent Brawl After Drone...



Hot Shots Photos of the Day: Volcanic Lightning, Massive...



Iraqi TV Show Mocks Isis: Dawlat al-Khurafa (Mythical State)...



Battle of Hastings 2014 Re-enactment in Pictures: Sun Shines on...



Ukraine: Far Right Nationalists Battle Police Outside Parliament...



Photo Report: Santeria, Animal Sacrifice and Cult of Maria Lionza...



Mexico: Fury Over 43 Missing Students Thought to Have Been...




Previous
1 of 
Next







            IBTIMES MEDIA & TV                              
    




Play
Controversy Still Follows Rembrandt as Civil Servants Strike



Play
Ryan Giggs on All Things Man Utd



Play
Ireland Calls Time on ‘Double Irish’ Tax Dodge



Play
Italian Nurse Suspected of Killing 38 Patients because They Were 'Annoying'



Play
WWII Veteran Harry Leslie Smith Warns Not to Repeat History in Iraq











Science

Space
Environment
Health








NASA's Longest Mars Simulation to Date: Three Men, Three Women Begin 8-Month Stay in a Dome in Hawaii






US: North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory Attacks France's Plain...





'Bono Has Ebola' Hoax Hits Twitter




Mars One 'Overly Optimistic' in its Assessment of Planned Mission
Canaanite Storm God: 3,300-Year-Old Cult Complex Discovered at Tel Burna in Israel
Bermuda Triangle Solved? Siberia's 'End of the World' Craters Could Explain Mystery
Ebola: Now You Can Track Worldwide Outbreak Cases on Silk's Interactive Map Infographic
Ebola Outbreak: UN Says Virus 'Running Faster Than Us' as Death Rate Soars to 70%
Hot Shots Photos of the Day: Volcanic Lightning, Massive Explosion, Serbia-Albania Violence








Technique to Detect Distant Earth-Like Planets Will Be Tested on Venus First






Nasa's Maven Spacecraft Beams First Complete Picture Of Martian...





Volcanic Eruptions On Moon As Recent As a Few Million Years Ago,...




Water On Distant Fiery Planet Mapped Using Nasa's Hubble Telescope
The Register to Launch First 3D-Printed Rocket-Powered UAV into Space
Black Hole that Eats Equivalent of 100 Billion Billion Hot Dogs per Minute Discovered
Flying Squad: Drone Sleuths Powering World's First Space Detective Agency
Hot Shots Photos of the Day: Blood Moon, Space Walk, Ebola Dog, Isis Air Strikes
Bible Says Stephen Hawking is a Fool: Christian Minister's Response to Hawking's 'God Does Not Exist' Theory [VIDEO]







 Bermuda Triangle Solved? Siberia's 'End of the World' Craters Could Explain Mystery





 Egypt, Ethiopia and Sudan Set For Crucial River Nile Dam Talks




 Global Warming: Plants Absorbed 1000bn Tonnes More of CO2 Than...




Global Warming: 'Every Other Summer Will Be a Heat Wave in Eastern China'
San Francisco Bay Area's San Andreas Fault 'Ready for Major Earthquake'
Himalayan Glaciers In Karakoram Adding Bulk, Not Losing Ice, Says Study
Icebergs Drifted Around Miami 21,000 Years Ago Thanks to Laurentide Ice Sheet
3 Dead As Cyclone Hudhud Begins Battering India
500,000 May Be Evacuated As Cyclone Hudhud Bears Down on Indian Coast








US: North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory Attacks France's Plain Packaging Anti-Tobacco Laws






'Bono Has Ebola' Hoax Hits Twitter





Ebola: Now You Can Track Worldwide Outbreak Cases on Silk's...




Ebola Outbreak: UN Says Virus 'Running Faster Than Us' as Death Rate Soars to 70%
Ebola Outbreak: Second US Health Worker Tests Positive for Deadly Disease in Texas
Apple and Facebook Offer Egg-Freezing Coverage For Female Employees
Los Angeles Metro Bus Passenger: 'Don't Mess With Me, I Have Ebola'
Halloween Ebola 'Containment Suit Costume' Causes Controversy
Facebook Founder Mark Zuckerberg Gives CDC $25m To Fight Ebola












Tweet













Home
Business
Economy
Technology
Sports
Entertainment & Arts
Opinion
Video







About us

Advertise with us
Brand


Terms of service
Privacy
Permission
Syndication
Contact


Editions:
Australia
China
India
Italy

Japan

U.K.
U.S.







© Copyright 2014 IBTimes Co., Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Google Plus
RSS




 








 
 




























