  
     
                                            Ebola Puts Focus On Drugs Made In Tobacco Plants                                                  |  News, Weather, Sport, Entertainment, Contests - WCCB Charlotte                                           |                World News                
     
                                            Ebola Puts Focus On Drugs Made In Tobacco Plants                                                  |  News, Weather, Sport, Entertainment, Contests - WCCB Charlotte                                           |                World News              




















WCCB Charlotte Weather


Newsletter
Contact Us




















                    70°                    






 
                    Partly Cloudy                










                                High: 71°                            

                                Low: 53°                            









Traffic
7 Day Forecast
Radars
Interactive













More Weather


get a nightlife
 





News

Streaming
Top Stories
Local News
Defend Charlotte
The Get with Morgan Fogarty
The Watch with Will Kennedy
NC News
SC News
National
World
Politics
Crime
Health
Education
Business
Technology
Weird News
Galleries
Gas Prices


Weather

Interactive Radar


Sports

Got Game
Panthers
Charlotte 49ers
Hornets
Charlotte Knights
NASCAR
Hurricanes / Checkers
Golf
High School
College


Rising

Chef Troy
Derek's Domain
Fashion Forward
Features
Friday Fun & Dance
The Good, The Bad & The Weird
Guests
Health
Pet Project
Schools
Travel
Wilson's World
Zell or Zilch


Edge

Edge On Demand
Pet of the Week
QC Scene
Entertainment News
TMZ
CarolinaNightlife.com


Events

Features

WCCB's Mobile App
CW Street Team
The CW on WCCB
Carolina Insight
Carolina Nightlife
Rising Spotlight
Just Jess
QC Scene
Let's Eat


Marketplace

Toyota of N Charlotte


Contests

Traffic

Web Links

WCCB Info

Our Team
Contact Us
Careers
Internships
DTV Change
Closed Captioning Information
Advertise With Us
EEO Reports
FCC Reports
TV Schedule













Mugshots
Nightlife Photos
Pets 4 Adoption
Interesting Photos


Follow @WCCBCharlotte
 
MeTV
F.C.C. Public File
































Ebola Puts Focus On Drugs Made In Tobacco Plants 




  Tools



Tweet


Email this article
Print this article

Share

Share!
X
Delicious
LinkedIn
Newsvine
Reddit    
StumbleUpon
Digg





															by
						AP


Story Created:
	  	         	Aug 15, 2014 at 6:36 AM EDT  			

Story Updated:
        		Aug 15, 2014 at 6:36 AM EDT
		

 
 Related Content


                                                        Texas Ebola Patient With Ties To Charlotte Area Dies
                            


                                                        Officials Confirm First Ebola Case Diagnosed In US
                            





 A tobacco flower waves in a dew-covered field outside Rolesville, N.C., on Wednesday, Aug. 13, 2014. Researchers are using a relative of this smoking leaf to grow medicines for the flu and even, perhaps, ebola. (AP Photo/Allen G. Breed)
NEW YORK (AP) — It's an eye-catching angle in the story of an experimental treatment for Ebola: The drug comes from tobacco plants that were turned into living pharmaceutical factories.
Using plants this way — sometimes called "pharming" — can produce complex and valuable proteins for medicines. That approach, studied for about 20 years, hasn't caught on widely in the pharmaceutical industry.
But some companies and academic labs are pursuing it to create medicines and vaccines against such targets as HIV, cancer, the deadly Marburg virus and norovirus, known for causing outbreaks of stomach bug on cruise ships, as well as Ebola.
While most of the work in this area uses a tobacco plant, it's just a relative of the plant used to make cigarettes.
"It's definitely not something you smoke," said Jean-Luc Martre, a spokesman for Medicago, a Canadian company that's testing flu vaccines made with tobacco plants.
Medicago has a new production facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Once approved by federal authorities, it's expected to be able to make 30 million doses of seasonal flu vaccine a year, or 120 million vaccine doses to fight a major outbreak of "pandemic" flu if the government requests it.
Scientists favor tobacco plants because they grow quickly and their biology is well understood, said Ben Locwin, a pharmaceutical biotech consultant in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, who is considered an expert on plant-produced medicines by the American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists.
The North Carolina operation can handle as many as 90,000 plants. Under the whir of fans, rows of young seedlings grow for about a month, until they are about a foot tall. Then they are taken by robots to another section of the facility, turned upside down and dipped in a tank to be "infiltrated" with whatever proteins they wish to grow.
There are a number of Ebola treatments and vaccine in development, and one comes from tobacco plants grown in specialized greenhouses at another operation, Kentucky BioProcessing, in Owensboro, Kentucky.
That experimental treatment, called ZMapp, uses proteins called antibodies, and is designed to inactivate the Ebola virus and help the body kill infected cells. It hasn't been tested in people but had shown promise in animal tests, so it was tried in three people sickened by Ebola in West Africa — two U.S. aid workers and a Spanish missionary priest, who later died.
The last few doses available are in Liberia. Kentucky BioProcessing, which produces it for the San Diego-based Mapp Biopharmaceutical, said it would take several months to make more, but it is working to increase production.
In general, the idea behind pharming is to slip the genetic blueprints for a particular protein into a plant and let the plant's protein-making machinery go to work. Then the protein can be extracted from plant tissues. While tobacco plants are a mainstay of such work, proteins also have been produced in other plants, such as safflower and potato.
In fact, the only medicine made this way that the federal government has approved for general use in people is made in a laboratory from cells of carrot plants. It treats a genetic illness called Gaucher's disease. The drug was approved in 2012 by the Food and Drug Administration.
A plant-made vaccine for a chicken disease gained approval from the Department of Agriculture in 2006 but was never brought to market. Another plant-produced product to fight germs that cause tooth decay has been approved for use in Europe.
The lack of any stronger track record for approved drugs in the United States is a key reason why the plant-based technology hasn't been embraced more fully, Locwin said. That's despite the fact that it offers benefits like lower cost than the standard approach of using vats of cells from mammals to churn out complex proteins, Locwin said.
Some companies use cells from bacteria instead, but they can't always produce the complicated proteins that drug companies need, he said. The plant-based approach "has a tremendous amount of promise, but it doesn't yet have the FDA blessing across the board to be able to say this is successful" and a proven way to get a drug to market, he said.
And it would cost companies money to change over to the new technology, he said.
Plant-based drugs have attracted the attention and funding of the federal government, however, as a fast and cheap approach to make a lot of vaccine material in case of terrorist attacks, said Daniel Tuse (pronounced too-SAY'), a consultant and managing director of Intrusept Biomedicine, which also works with tobacco plants in Owensboro.
If a new germ appears, genetic material from it can be quickly inserted into plants, and large numbers of the plants can churn out supplies of material for vaccines or treatments, he said.
The plant-based experimental Ebola treatment was developed with government support.
___
AP National Writer Allen G. Breed contributed to this report.
___



Previous Article 
									ISIS Claims to Have Murdered Journalist, Threatens Another
								
Next Article 
									Iraqi Prime Minister Steps Down
								










Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus

 

Most Popular







 














		Top Photo Galleries
			








  		  		Mugshots Mecklenburg County October 14th
  		  			







  		  		Strike City | PHOTOS
  		  			







  		  		Patrick Cannon Sentenced In Federal Court | PHOTOS
  		  			







  		  		Mecklenburg County Mugshots October 13, 2014
  		  			







  		  		Howl at the Moon | PHOTOS
  		  			







  		  		Bank of America 500 Pre-Race | PHOTOS
  		  			




















Most Popular




Mecklenburg County Mugshots October 13, 2014




Spy Cell Tower in Charlotte? 








Former Charlotte Mayor Patrick Cannon Sentenced In Federal Court




Mugshots Mecklenburg County October 14th




Howl at the Moon | PHOTOS































































Copyright © 2014

						Many pages in this WCCB-TV, Inc. Website feature links to other sites, some of which are operated by companies unrelated to WCCB-TV, Inc. WCCB-TV, Inc. has no control over the content or availability of any linked site. TM and (c) 2011 WCCB-TV, Inc., and its related entities. All rights reserved. Any reproduction, duplication, or distribution in any form is expressly prohibited.
						

 Privacy Policy 
 Terms of Service 
 EEO Reports 
 RSS Feeds 
 WCCB Charlotte Mobile  
CW
Powered by Broadcast Interactive Media.















