Ebola’s international impact / Articles -  The BrokerEbola’s international impact / Articles -  The Broker



























Home



											About
									



																					Who we are
													



																					Our vision
													



																					What we do
													



																					How we work
													



																					The Broker team
													



																					The Broker board
													



																					The Broker support
													



																					Authors
													



																					Archive
													





											Themes
									



																					Global Development
													



																					Food Security
													



																					Human Security
													



																					Inclusive Economy
													



																					Social Change
													





											Engage
									



																					Join the community
													



																					Write for us
													



																					Discuss with us
													



																					Project collaborations
													



																					Partners
													



																					Our funders
													





											Contact
									





Articles
  »  Ebola’s international impact











Theme





									Human Security
								


																											Editorial article 
																								



 


Summary

To understand the regional impact and continual threat of the Ebola crisis, a longer term understanding of the underlying issues is needed.



About the author







Karlijn Muiderman



									Karlijn Muiderman is a knowledge broker on human security at The Broker.
								
full profile






Tags



economic development


humanitarian


food crisis


disease


governance


decentralization





Related articles

 Special report: Collective self-interest 
Inge Kaul		 |  
					July 01, 2010
			





read more
  A fragile concept 
Chris van der Borgh		 |  
					July 28, 2008
			








read more
  Brazil braves new waters 
Jean-Paul Marthoz		 |  
					June 10, 2011
			








read more
  Ending hunger within a generation 
Evert-jan Quak		 |  
					May 07, 2013
			








read more
  Food for thought 
Karlijn Muiderman, Evert-jan Quak		 |  
					February 21, 2013
			





read more
































							Ebola’s international impact
					
Analysis on the dynamics of a region in crisis

Karlijn Muiderman		|
							September 19, 2014
			

Liberia has been hit hardest by the Ebola outbreak. It makes sense to focus much attention to this country, as well as its neighbours Sierra Leone and Guinea. But Ebola is not just a crisis for Liberia Sierra Leone, or Guinea. The devastation it creates in these severely affected countries is also felt in the entire West-African region and beyond. The outbreak of the incurable disease across the region is certainly a medical crisis, but so much more. It also has political, economic, gender and security dimensions. To understand Ebola’s regional impact and continual threat, a longer-term understanding of the underlying issues is needed. 


The humanitarian crisis
Governments across the globe are currently seeking ways to contain the outbreak. The United States is setting up emergency hospitals in the region, China is sending a laboratory, Japan is providing experimental drugs. However, a key challenge remains in strengthening health care facilities in remote areas across the region. One of the reasons for the spread of the virus is that people seek refuge with family members in neighbouring countries as quarantine centres are full. Without doubt, Ebola is also a gender issue. Women are hit harder, mainly because they are the ones who take care of the victims.
After the apparent successful containment of the disease in March, the second wave of Ebola started with Liberians seeking care from relatives in Guinea. Some of the initial measures to stop the disease from having spreading to other regions were to close borders and to cancel flights. These measures have not stopped the number of victims skyrocketing over the last three weeks with rapid cross border contamination.
Although it seems logical, the international response to the disease is humanitarian in nature, this is only part of the solution. An effective long-term response must recognise the severe political and economic damage wrought by the crisis on the region.Governance struggles
The recent Ebola outbreak exposes the deficiencies of West-Africa’s public healthcare, infrastructure and security provisions. Liberia, the country where two civil wars tore down structures of governance and stopped development for years, has been hardest hit. Other countries are also struggling as rapid urbanisation exceeds the capacity of governments to invest in public infrastructure and health services. This has undermined effective responses to the spread of the disease.
The crisis is compounded by local people’s mistrust of state health services and western medics. They too often rely on insufficient treatment at home or on traditional healers, which has contributed to further contamination. While most international donors support centralized health care, a few international organizations have started to educate local traditional and religious healers on adequate responses to outbreaks of disease.Economic impact
Ebola has a devastating effect on the economies of the countries it has impacted. This is felt in many sectors and further impedes solutions to the crisis. It has both immediate consequences and long-term implications. The recent strikes of medical staff at Monrovia’s central hospital and at a major Ebola treatment centre in Sierra Leone diminished capacity to cope. In the long-term the disruption caused will have devastating effects on the countries’ economic development. Liberia's Finance Minister said the outbreak had already cost his country's economy US$12 million between April and June. The World Bank has estimated that the outbreak has reduced Liberian GDP by 3.4 %. Sierra Leone’s growth expectations have been reduced from 11.3% in annual GDP growth to 7.0%. The agricultural, mining and service sectors have been particularly hard hit. However, tourism and the informal economy has also suffered. As a result food prices are increasing, if food is available at all. Food shortages have accelerated as people store food as a precautionary measure. In other quarantined areas food is left to rot as farmers are afraid to leave their homes to go to the market. Food shortages increase the risk of violent outbreak, which poses a further threat to stability in the region.Towards a regional understanding of the Ebola crisis
The crisis has a regional dimension as Ebola significantly impacts on the entire West-African economy. The underlying causes rapid spread of the disease are not just medical, but also have political, economic and security dimensions. The effects are felt at all levels - local, national, regional and global. Thus, the Ebola outbreak can only be fully understood and stopped when it integrates these political, economic and security dimensions into solutions across geographical areas and over time.
It is crucially important to understand, track and anticipate the consequences as the destabilizing effects of the Ebola crisis can spill over to other unstable countries in the region. Earlier experiences in Mali have shown that underlying many conflicts in the region is profound instability. Its root causes can be simmering below the surface for decades only to be triggered by some internal or external factors, or a combination of both. The Ebola epidemic has the potential to not only infect thousands of people, but to ignite social unrest and conflict which will severely undermine efforts to contain the crisis.   

ASC Information portal on Ebola


			The ASC has launched an information portal on the 2014 outbreak of Ebola (EVD, Ebola Virus Disease) in Africa. On the portal, you will find information from international health organizations like the World Health Organization and Doctors without Borders, government institutions of several (African) countries, news feeds and maps of the outbreak. The Information Portal will be updated regularly.




			Photo credit main picture:
							European Commission DG ECHO
						













 











COPYRIGHT
DISCLAIMER
COLOFON
CONTACT US


© 2014 Publisher IDP Minahassastraat 1 - 1094 RS Amsterdam - The Netherlands | Csorba Media













