 Fear and false alarms as Ebola puts Europe on alert | World news | The Guardian  Fear and false alarms as Ebola puts Europe on alert | World news | The Guardian 







Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]




Edition:
UK
US
AU






Your activity
Email subscriptions
Account details
Linked services
Sign out



Profile


Beta




























News


US


World


Sports


Comment


Culture


Business


Money


Environment


Science


Travel


Tech


Media


Life & style


Data







News




World news




Ebola









Fear and false alarms as Ebola puts Europe on alert
After the death of a Spanish missionary who contracted the virus in Liberia, European authorities are taking no chances






Share




Tweet this








Email







Ashifa Kassam in Madrid, Philip Oltermann in Berlin and Henry McDonald, Ireland correspondent	






The Guardian,
				            Friday 22 August 2014 11.06 EDT















Link to video: I survived Ebola


There has been only one confirmed Ebola case in Europe since the epidemic broke out in Africa, but a string of false alarms has provoked jitters and charges of overreaction.From Austria to Ireland, Spain to Germany, there have been at least a dozen cases of west Africans with mild flu symptoms being isolated until it was established that they were not suffering from Ebola. The only recorded case involved a Spanish missionary who contracted the virus in Liberia and died after he had returned to Spain.In Spain, worries over Ebola have resulted in three false alarms in as many days.On Sunday, a hospital in Alicante said it was investigating a suspected case of Ebola after a man in his late 30s was admitted to the hospital suffering a fever as well as vomiting and bleeding. He had recently arrived from Nigeria, he reportedly told hospital staff. Later that day, health authorities said the man had tested negative for Ebola.The next day there was panic at Madrid's Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas airport after a man suffered spasms and vomiting. Airport authorities put in place the Ebola protocol, cordoning off an area around the man. Health officials, wearing a type of hazmat suit, were brought in to attend to him, according to El País. After an examination by a second set of medics, it was determined that the man did not have Ebola. He was transferred to hospital for treatment.And on Monday evening, protocol against the disease was activated after a middle-aged man was admitted to a hospital in Bilbao with a fever. He had reportedly returned from a business trip to Sierra Leone. The regional health authority urged people to stay calm, saying it was activating the protocol as a precautionary measure. On Tuesday it announced that the test had come back negative.In Germany, about 600 people were quarantined for two hours in a Berlin jobcentre after a false alarm about a suspected case of Ebola.A 30-year-old woman from west Africa had collapsed at the jobcentre in the Pankow district on Tuesday afternoon. The centre was quarantined after the woman had told medics that she had been in direct contact with Ebola victims in her home country. 


				German police officers outside a jobcentre in Berlin that was quarantined after a woman from west Africa collapsed. Photograph: Fabrizio Bensch/Reuters
			

However, after the woman had been examined at an isolation ward at Berlin's Charité hospital, doctors said she had not visited an area affected by the virus and was suffering from an intestinal infection.In Ireland, the body of an Irish engineer who had worked in west Africa was quarantined in hospital until Ebola tests could be carried out.Dessie Quinn was found dead at his home in Mountcharles in Co Donegal and his body later taken to Letterkenny general hospital in the county where it was isolated. Tests for Ebola were carried out because he had been working in Sierra Leone a fortnight earlier.His family said they were annoyed that the 44-year-old's body had been placed in a quarantined area of the hospital without their prior knowledge."In its own way, that is very hard to take when there is a sudden death," said family friend Fr Aidan Gavigan. "However, this was the first time they had heard of this news. He was a young man being treated for malaria for a number of weeks."










Sign up for the Guardian Today
Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
Sign up for the daily email







Print this
Share
Contact us




Send to a friend





Sender's name



Recipient's email address





Your IP address will be logged







Share



				Short link for this page:
				http://gu.com/p/4xx8m




StumbleUpon
				



reddit
				



Tumblr
				



Digg
				



LinkedIn
				



del.icio.us
				



Facebook
				



Twitter
				








Contact us





					                        Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@theguardian.com


											Letters for publication should be sent to: guardian.letters@theguardian.com






					If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com


					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000




Advertising guide


License/buy our content








Article history



About this article



Fear and false alarms as Ebola puts Europe on alert
		   		    			    										This article was published on
							the Guardian website
							at 11.06 EDT on Friday 22 August 2014. 
					   	A version appeared  on p29 of the Main section section of 					   	the Guardian
					   	on Friday 22 August 2014. 
					   	It was last modified at 04.46 EDT on Thursday 28 August 2014.
						  				   								




World news


Ebola ·															

Europe ·															

Spain ·															

Ireland ·															

Germany ·															

Africa 

Society


Health 

More 			news
	




More on this story







 

 British Ebola patient seems 'pretty well' and has regained appetite, says father 

 Will Pooley remains in isolation unit at Royal Free hospital in London after being evacuated from Sierra Leone eight days ago 


 

 Hopes of Ebola drug breakthrough in ZMapp trials 



 

 First Ebola case confirmed in Senegal 



 

 Ebola cases in west Africa could rise to 20,000 says WHO 



 

 Ebola epidemic will get worse before it gets better, top US health body warns 



 

 GSK to begin testing its Ebola vaccine on humans 



 

 Ebola claims life of third doctor in Sierra Leone 



 

 Ebola epidemic takes toll on business in quarantine zones and across Africa 



 

 Will Pooley: 'At the start there was the horror of Ebola, now it's a bit routine' 



 

 British Ebola patient Will Pooley taking experimental drug ZMapp 



 

 Ebola: worker infected at WHO laboratory in Sierra Leone 



 

 Infected British nurse airlifted from Ebola zone spoke of joy at seeing patients recover 



 

 Liberian doctor in Ebola drug trial dies 



 

 Ebola outbreak: Congo becomes fifth country with confirmed cases 



 

 Ebola in Britain, is it time to panic? 



 

 Ebola: research team says migrating fruit bats responsible for outbreak 



 

 If God saved an American doctor with Ebola, why did he let 1,200 Africans die? 



 

 Ebola: life on and death on the frontline 



 


 I survived Ebola - video 










Share




Tweet this








Email











































On the Guardian today




World news
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus



World news
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates



World news
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus



World news
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war



Technology
Feminist games critic cancels talk after terror threat



Science
Google Glass user treated for internet addiction caused by the device










		
	        Today's best video
    








John Lydon on Russell Brand's call for revolution: 'idiotic'


											                        
                                    			Former Sex Pistol John Lydon, aka Johnny Rotten, is interviewed by Polly Toynbee, and pours scorn on comedian Russell Brand's call for people not to vote
		









'Reeva's death ruined our family'


											                        
                                    			Reeva Steenkamp's cousin gives an emotional testimony at the Oscar Pistorius sentencing
		






The internet is after your job


											                        
                                    			Is your job under threat? And what can you do about it?
		







Red card! Boris Johnson trips child


											                        
                                    			London mayor trips a small child during a football match outside City Hall
		











On World news





Most viewed


Latest




Last 24 hours



1. 
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus


2. 
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war


3. 
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus


4. 
Reeva Steenkamp’s family reveal heartbreak at Pistorius sentencing


5. 
Britain’s most racist election: the story of Smethwick, 50 years on


More most viewed




Last 24 hours



1. 
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates


2. 
Second Texas nurse with Ebola to be transferred to special facility


3. 
Sainsbury’s kiss-in held after lesbian couple told they were ‘disgusting’


4. 
Ebola-infected nurse's dog quarantined at decommissioned US naval base


5. 
UK landlords refuse to house student from Sierra Leone over Ebola fears


All today's stories












Sponsored feature

































		
	        Today in pictures
    








BBC Sports Personality of the Year – in pictures


											                        
                                    			Bradley Wiggins capped his remarkable sporting year by taking home the big prize at the ceremony in London
		






Dinner, dusk and dancing Russians: my best winter shot


											                        
                                    			A glass of wine with a rough sleeper, Santa in trunks, a thousand partying Muscovites … in a My Best Shot special, top photographers pick the image that sums up winter for them
		






Monkey adopts kitten – in pictures


											                        
                                    			Kimon, an eight-year-old pet female long-tailed monkey, treats a kitten as her baby in Bintan Island, Indonesia
		














License/buy our content

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Privacy policy

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Terms of service

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
US advertising

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
A - Z index

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
About us



© 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.









Share




Tweet this
































































