AOL.com Article - Ebola may leave 1 million in need of foodAOL.com Article - Ebola may leave 1 million in need of food













Back to Mobile View





true
nb_cid
nb_clickOther
-tt-nb
this.style.behavior='url(#default#homepage)';this.setHomePage('http://www.aol.com/?mtmhp=acm50ieupgradebanner_112313
network-banner-empty
upgradeBanner





14







http://portal.aolcdn.com/p5/forms/37983/4a254d5a-7987-44cb-af49-b747a61b0d49.png
AOL.com Article - Ebola may leave 1 million in need of food





































Welcome, Sign In


Sign Up
Options




Account InfoChange CanvasMake AOL My Homepage


Account InfoVideo






AOL Mail


Video


Favorites










Today

Read Mail
Weather
Games
Radio
AOL Apps



News

Huffington Post
HuffPost Live
Engadget
TechCrunch
Autoblog
Local



Entertainment

Cambio
Celebrity News
Games
Mandatory
Movies
Radio
TV
Video



Finance

Autos
Business News
CrunchBase
DailyFinance
Jobs
My Portfolios
Real Estate
Small Business



Lifestyle

Health
Horoscopes
KitchenDaily
Latino
MAKERS
Maps & Directions
Marlo Thomas
Mom.me
PawNation
StyleList
StyleMePretty
Travel



Sports

ESPN
Huffington Post Sports
Sports Illustrated



Real Estate

Homes for Sale
Rentals
Home Values
News
Home Finance
How To Guides
Celebrity Homes
Video



MyBenefits

Real Time Traffic
AOL Reader
Lifestore
AOL Desktop
AOL Toolbar
Browser Update
Downloads
Free Email
Mobile Apps
Chat
Directory












Unfolding Now

Tune in TONIGHT for "MAKERS: Women in Space"
Ebola
Jay Leno
Bono
Hurricane Gonzalo
Hong Kong
Kesha








Set Location

|
Weather


Weather


300


Change Location












Ebola may leave 1 million in need of food

Aug 15th 2014 1:14PM
 Comments



By BOUBACAR DIALLO and SARAH DiLORENZO
CONAKRY, Guinea (AP) - The deadly Ebola virus that has killed more than 1,000 in West Africa is disrupting the flow of goods, forcing the United Nations to plan food convoys for up to a million people as hunger threatens the largely impoverished area.
Amid roadblocks manned by troops and pervasive fear among the population of the dreaded disease, the worst-ever outbreak of Ebola is increasingly impacting the food supply in three countries.
The impacts are evident in Guinea's capital of Conakry, where fruit and vegetables no longer arrive from the country's breadbasket. In Sierra Leone and Liberia, several markets have been shut down. The price of rice and other staples is soaring in areas under Ebola quarantine.
Hunters of bushmeat, which can carry the Ebola virus, have lost their livelihoods, and farmers in some areas have been cut off from their fields. Price-gouging hurts people who struggle to feed themselves in the best of times, observers say.
While none of the regulations restricts the movement of basic necessities, fear and inconvenience are disrupting supplies. Some 1 million people in isolated areas might need food assistance in the coming months, according to the U.N. World Food Program, which is preparing a regional emergency operation to bring food by convoy to the needy. The three-month operation can be extended.
The World Health Organization warned this week that the outbreak could last for another several months and that its size may be vastly underestimated.
"It's a health crisis, but it has impacted food security," WFP spokeswoman Fabienne Pompey said. The U.N. food agency has already provided aid for months to several thousand people, including those in isolation wards and their families.
Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, which have imposed some internal restrictions on travel, are becoming more isolated as regional airlines suspend flights to the three countries. Major international airlines are still flying in, but the U.N. will start flights for humanitarian workers on Saturday to ensure aid operations aren't interrupted. In the coming weeks, they will also ferry staff to remote areas by helicopter.
Guinea is doing vigorous health checks on people moving into and out of infected areas in the country's southeast, where the outbreak was first identified in March. Products from these forested areas, which used to fill many markets of the capital of Conakry, are now shunned.
Idrissa Bah, a truck driver who customarily made the 370-mile (600-kilometer) trip from the forest region to the capital several times a month, has stayed put for three months because no one wants food from the southeast anymore, even though transmission through food is very unlikely. Daniel Bausch, who runs the virology and emerging infections department at the U.S. Naval Medical Research unit in Lima, Peru, said since only people with symptoms are infectious, it's unlikely they would be handling food. Also, the Ebola virus can only grow in living tissue and doesn't survive very long outside of it.
Still, the Yimbaya market in Conakry, known as the "forest market," is largely empty these days. A few merchants sell clothes and shoes, instead of the sweet potatoes, taro, manioc and plantains that used to heap the tables.
Faraban Traore used to sell palm oil from southeastern Guinea in the markets of Conakry.
"This trade gave me everything," he said. "But since they've said that Ebola is in Forested Guinea, no one wants to touch the oil."
To get into or out of Lofa or Bomi counties in Liberia, travelers must show ID, pass a health check and be providing an essential service. Similar restrictions have cut off Kenema and Kailahun districts in Sierra Leone. While food trucks are allowed into these places, truckers are staying away because of the hassle, said Augustine Allieu, country director for Plan International in Sierra Leone.
Sierra Leone banned special market days, where goods were sold at a discount. Liberia has shut markets along its borders with the other infected countries, leading to steep price increases.
"Everyone has tried to use that situation to exploit the people; they just hiked the prices of everything," said David Kolleh, who works in Bomi country for Sime Darby, a company that runs rubber and palm oil plantations in Liberia.
The cost of a bag of rice jumped 25 percent overnight, he said. The affected districts in Sierra Leone have seen similar price hikes, with a cup of rice jumping from 20 cents to 27 cents. Such a jump makes a big difference where more than half the population lives on less than $1 a day, according to U.N. statistics.
Niepou Haba, who used to sell vegetables from southeastern Guinea in Conakry, said she hasn't paid her rent in three months because nothing is arriving from the forest region.
"Our business is dead," said the 44-year-old woman, who raised six children on proceeds from the trade. "The market is empty.... How am I going to feed my children?"

More on AOL:
127 victims identified from Ukraine plane disaster
Prosecutor: Amish girls found safe spoke to police
8-year-old calls 911, saves babysitter




Share:
Share









See Comments















Share
Share






Join the discussion


Sign in » 


Add a comment...
Add a comment...



1000|Characters
1000  Characters

Submit






























Ad Feedback
 | Ad Choices




aol~~
1209600








Voting...



{"480":"6","986":"6","768":"6","320":"6"}
{"480":"6","986":"6","768":"6","320":"6"}
{"480":"2","986":"2","768":"2","320":"2"}


Popular Stories






Healthy Living:
Ebola Patient Flew Day Before Symptoms Started



Women:
This Comic Perfectly Captures How Feminism Helps Everyone



Healthy Living:
2nd Texas Health Care Worker Tests Positive For Ebola



Business:
Teens Love Brandy Melville, A Fashion Brand That Sells Only One Tiny Size



Parents:
The Time P!nk's Toddler Dropped The F-Bomb



Parents:
Christine Burke: 16 Things I Want My Daughter To Know














 



Follow AOL


 Facebook




 Twitter




 Google+




 Instagram








More From Our Partners


ZergNet









{"480":"4","986":"6","768":"4","320":"4"}
{"480":"4","986":"4","768":"4","320":"4"}
{"480":"2","986":"2","768":"2","320":"2"}

Popular Videos







Little boy tries to land first kiss







Bulldog and deer have the best time in field







Chelsea Clinton reveals post-baby body







5 things to know about Florida Georgia Line







Biggest attempted front flip doesn't end well







Iggy Azalea wants paparazzo to go away



More Videos






































Back to Top 





My AccountMailDownloadsHelp & Feedback

AOL Inc.PrivacyTermsAbout Our Ads













 

Facebook


 

Twitter


 

Instagram


 

Newsletter


 

RSS


 

AOL Mobile














© 2014  AOL Inc.

All Rights Reserved.















































AOL Mail


Video


Favorites




























