The ACA’s unpopularity is reaching new highsThe ACA’s unpopularity is reaching new highsWeb Version July 31










																First Look
																



Web Version
Sept. 10, 2014


















						A LOOK AT THE HEADLINES














								Subscribe a friend







Disliking the Law 


Nearly half of registered voters have an unfavorable view of the Affordable Care Act, compared with 35% of voters who support it, according to a Kaiser Family Foundation poll released yesterday. The KFF poll also found that health care is the third-most important issue 
						for voters in the upcoming midterm election. Meanwhile, a separate NBC/Wall Street Journal poll found that support for the ACA largely is divided by party lines, with 82% of Republicans reporting an unfavorable view and 63% of Democrats saying they view it favorably. (Sources: Kaiser Health News' "Capsules," 9/9; Modern Healthcare,
 9/9; National Journal, 9/9; The Hill, 9/9; Wall Street Journal's "Washington Wire," 9/9)





Funding Fight



A stop-gap spending bill to continue funding the federal government will contain less than half of the Obama administration's requested funds to help fight the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, according to sources close to House GOP leaders. The spending measure includes a total of $40 million dedicated toward the outbreak, including $15 million to help spur production of experimental treatments
 for the virus and $25 million for CDC. Meanwhile, the U.S. Agency for International Development announced yesterday that it will spend an additional $10 million in efforts to fight the disease, bringing total U.S. spending on the efforts so far to $100 million. (Sources: CQ HealthBeat, 9/9 [Subscription Required]; The Hill, 9/9; The Hill,
 9/9; The Hill, 9/9; Washington Times, 9/9)






						Pants on Fire



Administrators at 13 Veterans Affairs health facilities have lied to federal investigators who are looking into allegations of manipulated waiting lists and other issues, VA's acting inspector general told the Senate Veterans Affairs' Committee yesterday. (Sources: National Journal, 9/9; New York Times,
 9/10; AP/San Francisco Chronicle, 9/9; Wall Street Journal, 9/9; Washington Times, 9/9)






						Grown-Ups Only



The uninsured rate for U.S. residents under age 18 has remained relatively steady at 7% during the first six months of 2014, even as the Affordable Care Act has been linked to a four percentage-point decline in the uninsured rate for U.S. adults, according to the Urban Institute Health Reform Monitoring Survey. (Source: Washington Post's "Wonkblog," 9/9)







						Meaningful Reports





•

								"Engaging Medical Librarians to Improve the Quality of Review Articles": 
								Journal of the American Medical Association, September 2014


 
 


•
"Evidence-Based Management of Sickle Cell Disease: Expert Panel Report, 2014": NIH National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, September 2014


 
 


•
"Visualizing Health Policy: The Role of Medicare Advantage": 
								Kaiser Family Foundation, September 2014


 
 








						Top Stories on American Health Line






								•


Va. Gov. Announces Coverage Expansion for More Than 25K State Residents


•


Burwell Urges End to ACA Partisanship


•


DEA Expands Rx Take-Back Policy




 



These headlines 
								link to the top news stories on

americanhealthline.com.
								
								Not a subscriber? Sign up for a free


two-week trial!
								















								Trending Topics





Rx Take-Back Policy


Navigator Funding


Medicaid Expansion & ED Use


Harvard School of Public Health Donation





								Each topic links to a hand-picked 
								resource for further study.







								Notable Tweets






@WhelanHealthWhy is medical literature so often wrong? Well Virginia, It's the limits of epidemiology. medscape.com/viewarticle/829866 ...



@Paul_SonnierLove it when Colbert lampoons #DigitalHealth and #WearableTech thecolbertreport.cc.com/videos ...



@ddiamondIn 55 days, Californians will decide whether they want Prop 45, an insurer rate-review measure adopted by 35 other states.










This 
						email was sent to anthonywilson36@gmail.com
						Add
						
						ahl@advisory.com to your address book or safe sender 
						list so our emails get to your inbox.
						Feedback or coverage suggestion?
						
						Email us!
Read more 
						at
						
						www.americanhealthline.com

© 2014 The Advisory Board Company



						Manage your subscriptions

						Unsubscribe from this mailing

						Contact us

						Privacy policy 









