The Ebola prayer that goes unanswered - TelegraphThe Ebola prayer that goes unanswered - Telegraph

































Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Wednesday 15 October 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










Politics
Investigations
Obits
Education
Earth
Science
Health
Defence
Scotland
Royal
Celebrities
Weird




Home»
News»
World News»
Ebola











The Ebola prayer that goes unanswered

Doctors and nurses face the constant risk of infection in a desperate attempt 
  to halt the disease's spread across Liberia
























 



							By Colin Freeman, in Monrovia, video and pictures by Will Wintercross

11:53AM BST 21 Sep 2014
 



In time-honoured hospital tradition, the mid-morning ward round at Liberia's 
  JFK Ebola clinic begins with doctors and nurses gathered in a neat 
  semi-circle. The purpose of the huddle, however, is not to compare medical 
  notes but to sing a loud chorus of prayer - firstly for their patients, and 
  then for themselves. 


"Treating Ebola patients is very risky as we can become infected 
  ourselves," said Thelma Kane, 36, the ward hygienist, standing 
  alongside her colleagues in protective uniform of boiler suit, masks, and 
  gloves. "So before we go into the ward, we sing a prayer to ask the 
  Lord to follow us in our work."



Doctors at the JFK Ebola Clinic in Monrovia find room for one more 
  patient   Photo: Will Wintercross


Right now, though, the prayers of JFK's medical choir seem to go unanswered. 
  Not only do nearly half their patients die, they are also completely 
  overwhelmed by the number of cases, which has far outstripped the capacity 
  of Liberia's war-ravaged health service. 


"We cannot cope, the demand is huge," said Dr J Soka Moses, 34, the 
  hospital's clinical director, who opened the facility just a month ago in 
  what used to be a cholera treatment centre. He points through a 
  gauze-covered window to the clinic's "high risk" treatment area, 
  where feverish, vomiting patients can be seen occupying not just the beds, 
  but most of the floor space in between. 

Related Articles



Ebola in Liberia: pictures

26 Sep 2014



Ebola: Sierra Leone begins three-day shutdown

19 Sep 2014



'We cannot cope. The demand is huge': Liberia's doctors warnings on Ebola

20 Sep 2014



Briton is first to try Ebola vaccine

17 Sep 2014



Black market in blood of Ebola survivors to treat victims, doctors report

15 Sep 2014



UN to deploy Ebola mission as death toll continues to rise

19 Sep 2014





"This place was constructed for 35 beds, but right now I have 69 
  patients, so half of them are on the floor," he said. "There isn't 
  even adequate corridor space for us to walk between them. But if we turn 
  them back into the community, they will infect other people."


Nonetheless, on busy days, that still happens - just as it does at the handful 
  of other Ebola treatment clinics across Liberia, which has had 40 per cent 
  of the 2,200 Ebola deaths across West Africa so far. At the Medicins Sans 
  Frontier clinic, on the other side of the capital, Monrovia, staff were last 
  week turning away between 20 and 30 people a day. Doing so seldom goes down 
  well, as Dr Moses has seen for himself. Last weekend, relatives of a man who 
  died while waiting for treatment outside JFK hurled rocks at staff when they 
  came out to spray disinfectant on his corpse. 


It is scenes like this, on top of aid agency warnings that up to 20,000 West 
  Africans could have the virus by the end of the year, that prompted last 
  Tuesday's announcement by Washington that 3,000 US troops will be heading to 
  Liberia in coming weeks to boost the medical effort. It is the biggest US 
  ground operation in Africa since the ill-fated "Black Hawk Down" 
  mission to Somalia in 1993, when US troops sent to deal with a famine ended 
  up tangling with local warlords. And while Liberia's own notorious strongmen 
  are now long gone - ex-president Charles Taylor is serving a 50-year war 
  crimes sentence in a British jail - some fear similar trouble should US 
  troops become a lightning rod for public anger over the lack of help so far. 


Last week, in neighbouring Guinea, that frustration turned deadly for the 
  first time, when eight Ebola health education workers were murdered by a 
  club-wielding mob in a remote village. Feelings had been running high in the 
  area after rumours that other medical workers had contaminated people with 
  the virus. 


The risk for medical workers, however, is not just from angry mobs. Last 
  Wednesday, a French volunteer working at MSF's clinic in Monrovia tested 
  positive for Ebola, the first time any international staff member in the 
  agency has caught the virus. It is proof that that even the most stringent 
  precautions can never eliminate the risk. And it is that exact scenario that 
  goes through the minds of Dr Moses and his team as they don their protective 
  gear, which consists of multiple layers of boiler suits, aprons and 
  overtrousers, with four separate pairs of gloves alone. 



Doctors spray a sick woman with disinfectant before admitting her to the 
  clinic Photo: Will Wintercross


Simply robing up takes around 20 minutes. But the Russian doll-style layering 
  makes it safer when undressing again, when a doctor is most likely to be 
  accidentally contaminated by touching clothes smeared with bodily fluids 
  from the ward. 


"So far none our staff have been infected, although we have occasionally 
  had patients develop neurological symptoms and become combative, requiring 
  sedation," said Dr Moses, whose fondness for medical terminology does 
  not perhaps convey quite how frightening such incidents must be. "It is 
  very dangerous, it is scary," he conceded. "But if I don't do it, 
  who else will?"


While Dr Moses' work has had a certain personal cost - as a "high risk" 
  worker, he is not allowed to cuddle his two children when he comes home - he 
  is proud of his ward's track record so far. Its 43 per cent mortality sounds 
  grim by normal clinic standards, but is considerably better than the 70-90 
  per cent rates reported at the start of the outbreak. While treatment is 
  simply a matter of keeping patients fed and hydrated in the hope that they 
  fight the virus off, survival rates have improved because more people are 
  coming forward in the early stages of symptoms. 


Nonetheless, by the time Dr Moses' mid-morning rounds are over, another five 
  patients and their families are waiting in the pouring monsoon rain outside 
  the clinic's green metal gates. Among them is 15-year-old Faje Kan, who lies 
  convulsing on the muddy ground, mucus streaming down her face. Her elder 
  brother, Kiwai, holds her head and shoulders upright, wearing two carrier 
  bags as makeshift plastic gloves. 


"She was very sick overnight so we brought her here this morning," 
  he says. "We got her two hours ago but we could not get in because the 
  place was packed." Another man, Lee Sac, whose pregnant wife is lying 
  semi-conscious, complains angrily that "The Liberian health system has 
  failed us."


When Dr Moses comes out to try to help, an ugly mood turns uglier. "I 
  know you are angry but we are doing the best we possibly can," he says 
  through his mask, as the crowd gather round. "I have created five extra 
  beds, please be patient."


The five sick people, including a silent ten-year-old boy, are then carried 
  in, the hospital medics spraying them first with disinfectant. But for one 
  woman outside, Dr Moses' appearance brings only bad news. A shriek of grief 
  goes up as she learns that her husband, Vani Wana, brought into the clinic 
  two days before, has died. And no amount of bereavement training can help Dr 
  Moses for what he has to say next. Which is to remind Mrs Wana, gently but 
  firmly, that she too must now consider herself at risk of being infected. 


"I am sorry for your loss," he says. "Get tested now, then go 
  to your house and keep away from other people. If you start feeling sick, 
  come back here."











 








Ebola





News »


World News »


Africa and Indian Ocean »


Sierra Leone »









In Ebola






 


Ebola outbreak in pictures








 


Ebola in Liberia: pictures








 


Ebola explained








 


If Ebola was in the UK we'd cure it, says leading doctor








 


How could Ebola virus travel to the UK?








 













Read more World News





Isil jihadists may have access to chemicals for dirty bombs




 




Former commander of British Army issues warning as it emerges two large 
  stockpiles of shells filled with mustard and sarin gas have not been made 
  secure 






Amal Clooney: Greece has just cause to claim return of Elgin Marbles




 




Amal Clooney, the British lawyer who married George Clooney, says the British 
  Museum should be embarrassed about how the friezes have been split between 
  London and Athens 






America's war on Isil finally gets a name: Operation Inherent Resolve




 




The name was initially dismissed as "just kind of bleh", but US 
  officials seem unable to think of a better name for Isil operation 


Comments






Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'




 


 Video


John Grisham, the Memphis lawyer whose legal thrillers have sold millions of 
  copies worldwide, argues that the law is too harsh on those who have been 
  found guilty of downloading child porn 






John Grisham: men who watch child porn are not all paedophiles




 




As best-selling novelist John Grisham prepares to publish his new legal 
  thriller, he argues America's prison system has run out of control 






Probe sends ‘space selfie’ ahead of comet touchdown




 




Some 300 million miles from Earth, stunning images show comet firing off a 
  stream of gas as Rosetta mission prepares to launch first comet landing 






Republican says 'ugly as sin' Democrat will lose her seat in US congress




 




Attack on New Hampshire congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster triggers condemnation 
  from female politicians 






Steenkamp relatives describe how Pistorius shooting 'ruined' family




 




Reeva Steenkamp's loved ones give emotional testimony at court, recounting 
  childhood memories and details of how her shooting by Oscar Pistorius 
  affected the "very, very close family" 






Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin




 


 Video


Steenkamps struggle to hold back tears as Reeva's cousin tells court how Oscar 
  Pistorius has "ruined" their family 






'Putin's tiger attacks henhouse in China'




 




Siberian tiger released into the wild by Vladimir Putin at risk from hunters 
  after it attacks henhouse in China 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'








 


Nasa astronauts' close encounter








 


Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin








 


Evolution of the iPad in 90 seconds








 


Man Booker Prize winner in 60 seconds








 


Ebola halloween 'costumes' causing controversy in US



 








More from the web









            Loading
        































Advertisement











More from the web 










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Business Health Insurance 




 




						10 ways to improve your posture at the office



						View







 
				Barnebys Auction




 




						At auction: Leslie Hindman and the best job in the world



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































