FrontPageAfrica - ‘All Not Lost Yet: MSF Says Ebola Treatment Center BearableFrontPageAfrica - ‘All Not Lost Yet: MSF Says Ebola Treatment Center Bearable







AdvertisementLoginPrevious WebsiteContact Us



















    









Home

 
About us
Contact us
Search Articles, Videos & More
 


Ebola Central
News

 
Obituary
Photo Gallery
Video Gallery
 


Business

 
Finance | Money | Technology News
 


Politics
OP-Ed

 
Editorial
Letters From The Editor
Letters & Comments
Commentaries & Features
Speeches & Remarks
 


Health

 
Science | Environment
 


County News

 
Around Liberia
 


Interview

 
Audio
 


Sports

 
Football
Basketball
Athletics
 


e-Classifieds

 
Add Item
Category Tree
Single Ad View
Category Blog Layout
Category Table Layout
Favourites ads
User Items
 


e-Paper
 



BREAKING NEWS :






 
            				Senate Yet to Decide on Pres. Sirleaf Request for More Power > 
            			Senat 
 
            				Ebola Passageway: Corpse Smuggled from Isolation Centers > 
            			
“ 
 
            				USAID, Norway, Stepping Up Liberia’s Support Against Ebola > 
            			Monro 
 
            				Civil Service Agency Boss Faces Senate Probe Over Downsizing > 
            			Monro 
 
            				Eric Duncan A Victim, Not A Culprit, ANC Gives $500 to Family > 
            			Monro 
 
            				Chief Justice, High Court Must be Impartial in EJS Absolute Power Debate > 
            			We ha 
 
            				Voice for Health Workers Right: Ugandan Doctor Stepping on Toes > 
            			
Mal 
 
            				 Respect Legislature Decision: CDC‘s McGill Urges Pres. Sirleaf > 
            			Monro 
 
            				 European Bank Backs Urgent Monrovia Airport Runway Upgrade > 
            			Urgen 
 
            				'No Contradiction' -  T.C. Gould Says EJS Can Suspend Rights > 
            			Monro 



 



ADVERTISEMENT




 







 





 
Developed in conjunction with Ext-Joom.com 


 












 ‘All Not Lost Yet: MSF Says Ebola Treatment Center Bearable




Details

																Written by Wade C. L. Williams, wade.williams@frontpageafricaonline.com									

 Published: 10 September 2014				


Monrovia - Life inside an Ebola isolation center for patients who spend their time there is a dreaded one. Minute, by minute as the clock ticks the death toll rises. Many are admitted, but only few make it out alive. But at the Medecins Sans Frontier (MSF) Ebola treatment center life for people in isolation, suffering from the incurable disease is not as miserable as it is believed to be in the outside world, at least not for those who have the strength to walk around.
At a press conference at its facility in Monrovia on Tuesday, the MSF said it is working to make life a little convenient for those afflicted by the deadly virus. Through the eyes of Nelson Diakpo, Psychosocial Counselor at the MSF Treatment Center (ELWA3), the day begins at 08:00am Liberian time, there is a devotion call to those who can manage to stand on their feet and not too sick to move around.

















																			MSF Laurence Sailly																	
















																			The MSF Ebola treatment center																	
















																			The MSF Ebola treatment center																	
















																			The foot washing ritual																	
















																			Assistance for Ebola patients at the ELWA3 Facility runs by MSF																	
















																			Family members waiting to talk to their relatives																	
















																			A patient waiting to be admitted into the center																	













































A religious person, preferably a pastor makes the rounds all dressed in Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), there is clapping and singing and prayers for God to take the disease away. Many of those who are sick are said to also be deeply religious people who will not forget the divine power even in the face of a deadly disease that has no cure.“There is a boundary like a fence, which is more than the 8ft distance that they stand and then we communicate with them in the morning,” said Diakpo. “We provide religious service to give them hope. Those that are not able to come out, who remain in the tent; we also make a group available to go in there to talk with them and some of the issues that have to be addressed, we address it at the appropriate time.”The patients are also at least allowed to talk to family members through the help of the MSF Psychosocial team led by Diakpo. He said this has helped to raise the spirit of the sick. “We have made available phones to each one of the teams, for the confirmed side, we have eight phones, each assigned in one tent. We have a patient in charge of that,” said Diakpo at the MSF Tuesday press conference.



He said MSF has finalized a plan to let relatives see their loved ones who are in isolation without getting infected with the disease adding that it is the organization’s way of ensuring dignity for the sick. He said that relatives who are brave enough would be allowed to go inside the isolation to see relatives, after being properly educated and dressed in PPEs.We have put in place measures wherein patients that are weak and unable to come out, but wishing to see their relatives; in a few days from now they will be able to see their relatives,” said Diakpo. “We will tell the relatives, some of them things they need to do in order to go in there, provided they are willing to go in there. We will educate them on how to dress and what measures to put in place to go in to see their relatives.”He said everyday family members pour into the center to see their hear positive news about their relatives who are sick. Some of the relatives are seen sitting in a separate section of the facility waiting to be given a chance to talk to their loved ones who are remanded in isolation due to the deadly Ebola virus. “We identify their needs and when their relatives are around, we use that controller to go to the patient, directly to speak to whomever relative who want to speak with the patient,” said the MSF official Diakpo.The International medical humanitarian organization stated that it tries to do everything possible to raise the self-esteem of patients, which is very low when they come in due to the nature of the disease. Diakpo said the organization has created ways to keep those who are stronger busy, to keep their minds off the disease and their status.“They have the fear that once you have suspected and confirmed, you are going to die. We encourage them and give them hope and make them engage in things that will cause the feeling to go away,” he said. “Some of them want Ludo (Liberian number game), so we give them Ludo boards, for those who can play the check-up (number game) we give them checkup boards just for them to engage in activities to alleviate their stress.”Post Traumatic stress disorderDiapko said that MSF has been able to secure a mobile phone to track the progress in how well patients, that survive the deadly virus are reintegrating into their various communities. “We met our heads and they provided a phone yesterday with an initial US$20 scratch card, that has been registered and hopefully by today we will be getting feedback,” he said.“Working in there with the patients too, we have some challenges, especially for patients who are discharged from the facility into their communities. We have been finding it difficult to get feedback from them.” He said it is important to track the Ebola survivor’s progress as they reintegrate into the society because sometimes the stigma associated with the disease leads some survivors to develop psychological problems.The health worker told journalists that two days ago when MSF discharged its second batch of survivors one of them called and said he thought he was feeling some symptoms of the disease only to find out that he was losing appetite because he was stressed.“He said he had bitterness of the tongue; he had loss of appetite, so I asked him as to whether he had some stress attached to it,” said Diakpo. “He said he had previously been having some nightmares, which is a symptom of a post traumatic stress disorder. I’ve been working with him and yesterday he gave me a good response that bought some multivitamins and those symptoms are fading.”At the MSF Ebola treatment center patients are given what they call supportive treatment to patients because the disease has no cure. “We are aware that the disease has no cure. But here we give supportive treatment on a symptomatic basis,” said Diakpo.“We treat patients who have fever, We give them something for the fever; if you are vomiting they give you something to control the vomit; if you are running stomach, they give you something for the running stomach.” MSF states that it takes into consideration the nutritional status of the patients by providing a full balanced diet in a three-time daily meal.“We feed them three times daily. Between meals, we have other things like juices and biscuits that we also provide them,” he said. “There are other needs like clothing, bedding, toothpaste and toothbrushes, footwear; just anything that will make them feel comfortable.” MSF says it takes the safety of people working in isolation centers very seriously and will continue to use the best safety measures to keep them safe.“Fifty-five expatriates alone, we are nothing, the work is done by the Liberian people,” said Laurence Sailly MSF Emergency Coordinator. “Our responsibility is to make sure that there is enough material to be protected and trained enough to protect themselves.”Sailly said MSF as an organization does not have the capacity to provide all the help needed to fight the outbreak. She said the international community has to come in and help to support the fight against Ebola.“We will not be able to have more than four hundred beds in Monrovia. It is not going to be more than that and it is not going to be enough for the amplitude of the epidemic here,” she said. “We are calling for more people to come in and help in the response and we will continue to do that.”The workers seem to be comfortable with the level of safety measures in place at the MSF center as Diakpo told journalists. “In the treatment center there, one of the major concerns of the organization is staff safety and we take that seriously,” he said. “We are not saying it is 100%, but we feel confident working here with the measures that are put in place for the staff to be safe. When we go in there we wear the PPE before we go to meet the patients.”Liberia is reporting 2081 cumulative (confirmed, probable, suspected) cases from the Ebola Virus Disease, with total death of 1,246 in confirmed, probable, suspected cases.
 
 
ADVERTISEMENT
 




 
fShare
 
Tweet

 



 












 







 


 

 e-Classifieds Search






LocationAfricaEuropeNorth America




CategoryReal EstateBooksObituaryJobsCarsEventsServicesMerchandise







Price ( USD )
From

To


Search






 

 Health-Sci




			Ebola Passageway: Corpse Smuggled from Isolation Centers



			Voice for Health Workers Right: Ugandan Doctor Stepping on Toes



			Health Workers Divided over Strike - Government Remains on Edge



			Imminent Strike: Health Workers To Begin Go-Slow Over Wages



			Liberia’s Ebola Red List: ‘These Patients Did Not Make It’





 

 e-Classifieds Items







 


 

 Most Read




			Sawyer’s Final Hours In Lagos: ‘Indiscipline’, Rage, Strange



			Danger Lurks in Monrovia: Ebola Patients Flee W. Point Isolation



			Ebola Claims Life of JFK Chief Medical Doctor, Samuel Brisbane





 












Copyrights © 2014 FrontPageAfrica - All Things Africa 24/7. All Rights Reserved.










 Powered by FrontPageAfrica
			



 


