The Greatest Tragedy of the Ebola Crisis  | IREX - Civil Society, Education and Media DevelopmentThe Greatest Tragedy of the Ebola Crisis  | IREX - Civil Society, Education and Media Development



Skip to Navigation





About us

Annual Report

Apply

Careers

Get Updates

Contact

Donate
 
 





Search this site: 








 

 



 

Focus Areas
Library
Blog
News & Impact
Projects
Regions
  
 
Home › Blog › 





 
 


 
 
 

The Greatest Tragedy of the Ebola Crisis 
 





    Posted on   






September 11, 2014 






-  in








Africa, Blog Post, Liberia, Civil Society Strengthening, Conflict Resolution, Media Development



 


Blog tags:

Africa, aid, awareness, azerbaijan, best practices, civil society, collaboration, communities, community, culture, Ebola, governance, government, health, health care, information, information access, Liberia, relationships 















Stories of IREX





Tanzania’s Youngest Member of Parliament Working For Inclusive Governance




Developing Girls' Digital Literacy, ICT Skills




Illinois Teacher Increasing Students’ Global Intelligence




New Digital Museum of Women Launches in Egypt



 









 






by Arthur Berrian, IREX/Liberia
According to statistics from the Liberia Ministry of Health and the United Nations Missions in Liberia (UNMIL) the Ebola death toll in West Africa has reached more than 2000 persons. Every day we hear of the death of a friend or family member in our communities to Ebola.
Because of the rapid spread of the virus, the government of Liberia has declared a state of emergency restricting movement, instituting a nationwide curfew, and quarantining communities throughout the country. We are seeing the prices of food rise, while hopes fall. Citizens are frustrated with a government who they feel has failed to protect them.
A nation that survived fourteen years of a brutal civil war and spent the past 11 years putting back together its economic, social, and political life and gaining the confidence and respect of the international community now risks a return to civil unrest and the potential for worse. This unrest is tragic, but it is not the greatest tragedy of this Ebola crisis.
Rather, the greatest tragedy of this Ebola crisis, in my view, is that the culture and social fabric of Liberian society has been shattered by this epidemic. The Ebola disease has restricted Liberians from shaking hands – a sign that symbolizes peace, a sign of welcome and friendship, a sign of connection, demonstrating our bond as Liberians and demonstrating our openness to strangers. Now when we meet each other we find ourselves instinctively reaching out then immediately drawing our hands back. This has become the “new” Liberia.
Before Ebola, family and friends would not hesitate to visit a sick loved one, or participate fully in the funeral of a loved one by washing the body to prepare it for the mortuary or burial. The message now is stay away. Sick people are abandoned as families understandably keep their distance, and burials or cremations occur without ceremony. 
Families who refuse to adhere to these precautions and continue to practice traditional burial practices are infected en masse, with several instances of whole families dying as the result of one funeral.
This tragedy has to be brought to an end.
Our beloved traditional practices of shaking hands, caring for the sick, and respecting the dead must be restored. The government and the international community along with local and international NGOs are making concerted efforts to ensure Ebola is eradicated. IREX’s Civil Society and Media Leadership (CSML) program is part of this valuable effort supporting its Liberian partners—media and civil society organizations—to educate and create awareness on Ebola prevention and care, and engage with government and other partners to coordinate their response and ensure appropriate actions are taken to eradicate Ebola in Liberia.
Through these initial efforts I have seen that the challenges are real, but the path is clear. Specifically, I recommend the following:
• The government of Liberia must have a clear, constant, and consistent communication to the people of Liberia about what Ebola is, how it is contracted, and how it can be prevented. This communication must dispel the various myths and rumors about Ebola that have slowed behavior change thus far.
• The international community especially the WHO, UNMIL, and the US government must make available resources like ambulances, vehicles, protective equipment, medicines for the treatment of the symptoms of Ebola, and knowledgeable health professionals on the ground to work with those affected and infected.
• International NGOs need to be on the ground in Liberia collaborating with local partners to reinforce Ebola awareness messages in partnership with the government and the media, help distribute relief food and materials to quarantined areas and communities hardest hit by the Ebola virus, and support communities to identify possible cases of conflict and work together to put in place preventative measures and strategies to sustain peace.
I am convinced that these actions are critical to ensuring that Ebola is eradicated from our nation and the West African region more broadly, giving us the opportunity once more to demonstrate our cultural practices that make us what and who we are, Liberians.
Arthur is the Senior Regional Support Center Program Officer for the CSML program in Liberia. He has an undergraduate degree from the Evangelical College of Theology in Sierra Leone and a Master’s degree in Theology and Global Development from the University of Leeds in the UK. Before joining IREX, Arthur worked as a Program Adviser with the New African Research and Development Agency in Liberia.














 




The Power of Positive Youth Development
How Public Libraries Can Support Community Literacy







 
 



 
 




IREX   1275 K Street, NW, Suite 600, Washington DC 20005


		T +1 202 628 8188      F +1 202 628 8189     IREX@IREX.ORG

Careers  |  Contact  |  Credits  |  Privacy Policy  |  IREX Europe



    




Get Updates with the IREX newsletter



Donate

 
 





