What Went Wrong With Ebola - Business InsiderWhat Went Wrong With Ebola - Business Insider









Featured
Trending
Recent


































Login 












 Remember me
                        
 I forgot username or password


 Login with Twitter
 Login with Facebook
 Login with LinkedIn
 Login with Google


Register























Events
BI Intelligence






















                                    Tech                                





                                    Finance                                





                                    Politics                                





                                    Strategy                                





                                    Life                                





                                    Entertainment                                





                                    All                                















Continue to Business Insider »
You will be redirected in  seconds.

















 






×








From





To















                You have successfully emailed the post.
            









Science 

            More:

                                                        Health
Ebola Virus
Barack Obama
World Health Organization


We Screwed Up On Ebola, And Now The Crisis Is Getting Much Worse







Lauren F Friedman











Sep. 27, 2014,  3:30 AM
18,098


39 













facebook





linkedin





twitter





google+





print





email





































print





email













share 





share 





tweet 





share 





print





email













Share on Facebook 





Share on Twitter 





Share on Linkedin 





share 





print





email












Tony Gentile / ReutersItalian Air Force soldiers attend a military exercise preparing to help people infected with the Ebola virus in the event that it happens, at the Pratica di Mare Air Base, near Rome September 24, 2014.
Back in April, when the Ebola outbreak in West Africa had killed less than 100 people, Doctors Without Borders urged the world to mobilize a significant response, warning that failure to act could result in an "unprecedented epidemic."
Instead, the world responded with what Nicholas Kristof of The New York Times called "a global shrug." Over the summer, as residents of the developed world comforted themselves with the knowledge that an outbreak on our home turf was highly unlikely, the death toll in one of the poorest corners of the world climbed sharply.
Business InsiderThe "unprecedented epidemic" went from dire prediction to on-the-ground reality, and now the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that — worst-case scenario — there could be 1.4 million cases of Ebola in West Africa by January.
It didn't have to be this way.
Early Warnings
For anyone paying attention, the long-brewing crisis hardly came out of nowhere.
At the beginning of August, in a House subcommittee meeting, Ken Isaacs of Christian relief organization Samaritan's Purse said that elevated international aid was already overdue. "The Ebola crisis was not a surprise to us — we saw it coming back in April," he testified, sounding outraged as he castigated the United States for mostly not paying attention until two American Samaritan's Purse workers fell sick in late July.
"The international response to the disease has been a failure," he said. "The international community allowed two relief organizations [Samaritan's Purse and Doctors Without Borders] to provide all of the clinical care for Ebola victims in three countries."
On their own, Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea "simply do not have the capacity to handle the crisis in their countries," Isaacs said. "The world will effectively be relegating the containment of this disease to three of the poorest countries in the world."
That assessment was echoed by Daniel Bausch, an American doctor who talked to Business Insider in August about his experience on the ground in Guinea and Sierra Leone. "You have a very dangerous virus in three of the countries in the world that are least equipped to deal with it," Bausch told us. "The scale of this outbreak has just outstripped the resources. That's why it's become so big."
He also emphasized that an international response had to be swift and significant. "Every moment we wait, we risk more transmission," Bausch said. "It's a race against time."
John Moore / GettyA Chinese UN soldier prepares a truckload of Ebola relief aid after it was airlifted by the United Nations Children's Fund, on August 23, 2014 in Harbel, Liberia.
What Now?
By late August, The Wall Street Journal reported, "the nations with the funds and medical resources to help deal with this scourge [had] offered only a trickle of aid." (The CDC has been on the ground helping with the Ebola outbreak for a while, but only in small numbers.)
In mid-September, around the same time the World Health Organization doubled its August estimate of the funding needed to bring the crisis under control, saying approximately $1 billion was needed, President Obama announced that he would lead the United States in "a major increase in our response" to Ebola.
That effort will include hundreds of millions of dollars in aid as well as 3,000 American troops in Liberia, who will be helping with logistics, building Ebola facilities containing 1,700 much-needed beds, and training hundreds of local healthcare workers.
France, China, the UK, Cuba, Canada, and other countries are also providing funding and assistance on the ground, though none currently at the scale of the United States.
"As tragic and difficult as the situation in West Africa is today, this is a fight we know how to win. We have the tools and the capacity to contain this epidemic and to prevent future ones," Susan Rice, Obama's national security adviser, wrote Friday in USA Today. "What's needed now is the political will to dedicate the necessary resources and to transform our vision into reality."
Luc Gnago / ReutersA student holds a sign after a performance by actors during an awareness campaign against Ebola at Anono school in Abidjan September 25, 2014.
The Cost Of Waiting
The nations able to help fight what is now a raging epidemic waited far too long to unleash the tools and resources needed to contain a crisis that has already ravaged a trio of countries ill-equipped to manage it on their own. "We have to act fast. We can’t dawdle on this one," Obama said two weeks ago, after the international community had already dawdled for months.
"We would never tolerate such shortsightedness in private behavior," Kristof observed, in The New York Times. "If a roof leaks, we fix it before a home is ruined. If we buy a car, we add oil to keep the engine going. Yet in public policy — from education to global health — we routinely refuse to invest at the front end and have to pay far more at the back end."
And while containing the Ebola epidemic will cost far more now than it would have in April, "the worst consequence of our myopia isn’t financial waste," wrote Krisof. "It's that people are unnecessarily dying."
ReutersEbola cases and case deaths in western Africa, according to data from the WHO. (Current as of September 21.)
A new paper in the New England Journal of Medicine by a team of World Health Organization researchers estimates that if current trends continue, the number of confirmed and probable cases will rise to 20,000 by Nov. 1, with almost half of those cases in Liberia:

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also released projections on Tuesday, using a new modeling tool that ended up with different numbers than the predictions published in the NEJM.
They estimated that reported cases in Sierra Leone and Liberia could rise to 8,000 by the end of September. But the CDC also noted that cases seem to be vastly underreported, perhaps by a factor of 2.5. According to the new projections, the true number of cases by the end of September could — worst-case scenario — rise to 21,000. 
By Jan. 20, 2015, the number of Ebola cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone could be as high as 550,000, the CDC report said. Correcting for underreporting, the number would be vastly higher: 1.4 million cases.

"If conditions continue without scale-up of interventions," the CDC researchers warned, "cases will continue to double approximately every 20 days, and the number of cases in West Africa will rapidly reach extraordinary levels."
The projection of over 1 million cases by the end of January is not the likeliest scenario, but it is entirely possible. "My gut feeling is, the actions we're taking now are going to make that worst-case scenario not come to pass," CDC director Tom Frieden told The New York Times. "But it’s important to understand that it could happen."
There are reasons to think that the tide may be turning against Ebola. "The findings ... indicate that the epidemic can be controlled," the CDC researchers wrote, and the international community has already begun mobilizing to help avoid the worst-case-scenario predictions. (The CDC's best-case-scenario projections show that the epidemic could be almost over — rather than infecting more than a million people — by Jan. 20.)
Ebola is spread via bodily fluids, and isolating patients and their contacts is the most effective way to contain it. More beds set up for Ebola treatment are desperately needed.
The CDC projections — based on data from August — "reflect a moment in time before recent significant increases in efforts to improve treatment and isolation," said Frieden in a statement. "They do not account for actions taken or planned since August by the United States and the international community. We anticipate that these actions will slow the spread of the epidemic."
 



SEE ALSO: 
Here's A Terrifying Chart Of Projected Ebola Cases


















facebook





linkedin





twitter





google+





email





































email













share 





share 





tweet 





share 





email













Share on Facebook 





Share on Twitter 





Share on Linkedin 





Share on Google Plus 





email










Recommended For You

































Join The Discussion













OR  Login With Facebook
 Login With Twitter
 Login With Google









 Submit the comment for Insider Status
								











Comments 






						Insiders
						0




						All Comments
						39




Apply To Be An "Insider" »







 Loading











We Screwed Up On Ebola, And Now The Crisis Is Getting Much Worse
We Screwed Up On Ebola, And Now The Crisis Is Getting Much Worse

Back in April, when the Ebola outbreak in West...




















Get Science Emails & Alerts




Sign-Up

Learn More »





									Science Select							


More




Featured








													Business Insider Select												




													Tech Select												




													Tech Chart Of The Day												




													Markets Chart Of The Day												




													10 Things Before the Opening Bell												




													Instant MBA												




													Breaking News												




													Business Insider Events												








Entertainment








													Entertainment Select												




													Sports Select												








Finance








													Finance Select												




													Markets Select												




													Monday Scouting Report												




													Your Money Select												




													Financial Advisor Insights												




													Smart Investor												








Strategy








													Strategy Select												




													Advertising Select												




													Retail Select												




													Careers Select												




													Marketing Mondays												




													Advertising: The Brief												








Politics








													Politics Select												




													Military Select												




													Law & Order Select												








Life








													Life Select												




													Transportation Select												




													Education Select												








Tech








													Enterprise Select												




													Science Select												




													Mobile Chart Of The Day												




													E-Commerce Chart Of The Day												




													Payments Chart Of The Day												




													Digital Media Chart Of The Day												








Charts of the Day








													Sports Chart Of The Day												








Top 10 Things








													10 Things In Tech You Need To Know												




													Closing Bell												













Advertisement






Your Money



                    NASDAQ Composite                
4,185


                            -41.97                        



                            (-0.993%)
                        




                    S&P 500                
1,852


                            -25.32                        



                            (-1.348%)
                        




                    NYSE Composite                
10,053


                            -132.45                        



                            (-1.3%)
                        




Sponsored By











LinkedIn














                                                E-COMMERCE AND THE FUTURE OF RETAIL: 2014 [SLIDE DECK]                                            













                                                REVEALED: The Demographic Trends For Every Social Network                                            













                                                How To Quit Smoking: Stick Your Head In A Can Of Cigarette Butts, Says Famed Psychologist                                            








Login with LinkedIn to see what your friends are reading on Business Insider. 
 Login with LinkedIn




                    No articles have recently been shared in your network.
                




More »





Featured






3 Types Of Companies That Could Thrive In A Changing Bull Market


More "Think Global" » 






These Two Guys Have Figured Out How To Make Your House Key Obsolete


More "Tech 360" » 






An Awe-Inspiring Tour Of The Navy's Most Important Submarine Base


More "Tours Of Duty" » 






Wall Street Thrill Seekers Love This Montana Resort Where A Spot Can Cost $26 Million


More "Out Of Office" » 


 




Welcome, !



You are logged into Facebook
Social: 

Your Activity|


These articles have been shared on your timeline. You can remove them here:





Options


Notify me when a story is shared.




Yes

No











Welcome, !



You are logged in with Google
Social: 

Your Activity|


These articles have been added to your Google activity log. You can remove them here:





Options


Notify me when a story is shared.




Yes

No












Watch & Learn



7 Reasons Why The New Tesla Is Such A Big Deal
Watch Elon Musk Unveil The New Tesla In True 'Iron Man' Fashion
Forget The Tesla D — This Massive Robotic Arm At The Unveiling Stole The Show 
 




Trending






BI Intelligence


Mobile Is Pulling Customers Away From Branches And Online Banking


Same-Day Delivery Report


THE BEACONS FAQ: It's Time To Set The Story Straight


How Social Networks Are Driving More Sales And Influencing Online And Offline Purchases



Read Business Insider On The Go



FREE AppDownload


 Available for iPhone, iPad, Android, BlackBerry and Windows   

 






Advertisement








Find A Job




Tech Jobs


Media Jobs


Finance Jobs






C-Level Jobs


Design Jobs


Sales Jobs






See All Jobs






Thanks to our partners


















* Copyright © 2014 Business Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
                            Terms of Service
                            and
                            Privacy Policy.

Disclaimer
Commerce Policy





                            Powered by MongoDB


                            Hosted by Datapipe


                            Stock quotes by YCharts


Made in NYC




International Editions:
                        AUSIDINMYSG 

































































