WHO | No early end to the Ebola outbreakWHO | No early end to the Ebola outbreak












Skip to main content








Access


Home Alt+0


Navigation Alt+1


Content Alt+2







Search


 Search the
            WHO.int site




 Submit 









            Advanced search
        






Navigation



Home




Health topics




Data




Media centre




Publications




Countries




Programmes




About WHO








Language


عربي  
中文  
English  
Français  
Русский  
Español  






RSS Feed
Youtube
Twitter
Facebook
Google +
iTunes









       Global Alert and Response (GAR)
	






Menu


GAR Home
Alert & Response Operations
Diseases
Global Outbreak Alert & Response Network
Biorisk Reduction










No early end to the Ebola outbreak
 
Situation assessment - 14 August 2014

 

The outbreak of Ebola virus disease in West Africa continues to escalate, with 1975 cases and 1069 deaths reported from Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone. 

No new cases have been detected in Nigeria following the importation of a case in an air traveller last month. Extensive contact tracing and monitoring, implemented with support from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), has kept the number of additional cases small. 

Elsewhere, the outbreak is expected to continue for some time. WHO’s operational response plan extends over the next several months. Staff at the outbreak sites see evidence that the numbers of reported cases and deaths vastly underestimate the magnitude of the outbreak. 

WHO is coordinating a massive scaling up of the international response, marshalling support from individual countries, disease control agencies, agencies within the United Nations system, and others. 

The World Food Programme is using its well-developed logistics to deliver  food to the more than one million people locked down in the quarantine zones, where the borders of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone intersect. Several countries have agreed to support the provision of priority food staples for this population.

Practical on-the-ground intelligence is the backbone of a coordinated response. WHO is mapping the outbreak, in great detail, to pinpoint areas of ongoing transmission and locate treatment facilities and supplies. Good logistical support depends on knowing which facilities need disinfectants or personal protective equipment, where new isolation facilities need to be built, and where the need for more health-care workers is most intense.

CDC is equipping the hardest-hit countries with computer hardware and software that will soon allow real-time reporting of cases and analysis of trends. This also strengthens the framework for a scaled-up response.

Today, WHO Director-General Dr Margaret Chan held discussions with a group of ambassadors from Geneva’s United Nations missions. The meeting aimed to identify the most urgent needs within countries and match them with rapid international support. 

These steps align with recognition of the extraordinary measures needed, on a massive scale, to contain the outbreak in settings characterized by extreme poverty, dysfunctional health systems, a severe shortage of doctors, and rampant fear.











Share



Email
Twitter
Facebook
Google
Delicious
LinkedIn

More...









Print




Related links


About Ebola virus disease


Disease outbreak news


Fact sheet on Ebola virus disease













You are here:


Global Alert and Response (GAR)


Pandemic and Epidemic Diseases


Ebola virus disease (EVD)








Quick Links


Sitemap


Home


Health topics


Data and statistics


Media centre


Publications


Countries


Programmes and projects


About 
          
          WHO





Help and Services


Contacts


FAQs


Employment


Feedback


Privacy


E-mail scams





WHO Regional Offices



          WHO African Region



          WHO Region of the Americas



          WHO South-East Asia Region



          WHO European Region



          WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region



          WHO Western Pacific Region








RSS Feeds




          WHO YouTube channel


Follow 
          
          WHO on Twitter




          WHO Facebook page




          WHO Google+ page




          WHO iTunes










© 
        WHO 2014


Back to top








