4th Sierra Leonean doctor infected with Ebola - Yahoo News4th Sierra Leonean doctor infected with Ebola - Yahoo News










   HomeMailNewsSportsFinanceWeatherGamesGroupsAnswersScreenFlickrMobileMoreCelebrityMoviesMusicTVHealthStyleBeautyFoodDIYTechShoppingTravelAutosHomes                        Sign In     Mail      Help    Account Info Help Suggestions      











Follow Yahoo News







 on Facebook





 on Twitter





 on Tumblr





 on Google+





 on Flickr
















News Home


U.S.


World


Politics


Tech


Science


Health


Odd News


Local


Dear Abby


Comics


ABC News


Yahoo Originals


Photos



































4th Sierra Leonean doctor infected with Ebola







By CLARENCE ROY-MACAULAY and JONATHAN PAYE-LAYLEH
September 11, 2014 6:16 PM


































Content preferences




Done












.
View gallery






 


.





 


.















FREETOWN, Sierra Leone (AP) — Another doctor from Sierra Leone who has tested positive for Ebola will be evacuated for medical treatment, an official said Thursday, making her the first citizen of a hard-hit country to be treated abroad.Dr. Olivette Buck is the fourth Sierra Leonean doctor to contract the disease — and the three others all have died. Arrangements are being made to send her to another country for better treatment, said Health Ministry spokesman Sidie Yahya Tunis without specifying further.So far, only foreign health and aid workers have been evacuated abroad for treatment from Sierra Leone and Liberia. The worst Ebola outbreak in history also has hit Guinea, Nigeria and Senegal, and has been blamed for more than 2,200 deaths across West Africa.The disease is taking a particularly heavy toll on health care workers, whose jobs put them at high risk because Ebola is only transmitted through contact with the bodily fluids of people showing symptoms or dead bodies. More than 135 health workers have died in the outbreak so far, exacerbating shortages of doctors and nurses in countries that already had too few medical workers to begin with.Sierra Leone and Liberia have been especially hard hit, and officials have warned that both countries could see a surge in cases soon. Sierra Leone is expecting to uncover potentially hundreds of new cases when volunteers go house to house looking for the sick during a three-day lockdown later this month. The World Health Organization has said Liberia could see many thousands of new cases in the coming weeks.To keep up with the accelerating infection rate, Liberian Information Minister Lewis Brown told a news conference Thursday that the capital region alone needs 1,000 beds.




View gallery


 

Health workers carry load the body of a woman that they suspect died from the Ebola virus, onto a tr …
That squares with a World Health Organization estimate from earlier this week. The U.N. health agency said the county where Monrovia is located currently has only 240 beds, with 260 more on the way — only half of what's needed.The tremendous fear surrounding the disease and the extreme measures used to contain it — like the cordoning off of entire towns for days — has led to sharp criticism of Liberia's government and even calls for the president to step down. But Brown urged Liberians to unite, warning that if they didn't, "this virus will consume all of us.""We are at war with an enemy that we don't see," Finance Minister Amara Konneh told reporters. "And we have to win the war."But he said Liberia would be dependent on international assistance to do so. The U.N. has said at least $600 million is needed to fight Ebola in West Africa, and already several pledges have come in. The United States has spent $100 million so far, with more promised, and Britain has given $40 million.Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen's foundation on Thursday announced a $9 million donation to the CDC Foundation, which raises money for the U.S. government's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It will be used to help set up emergency operations centers in West Africa.




View gallery


 

Health workers carry the body of a woman that they suspect died from the Ebola virus, in an area kno …
Also Thursday, Cuba's health minister was meeting with the World Health Organization's director to discuss how it could help. Cuba has a relatively advanced medical education system and for decades has dispatched thousands of doctors to the world's developing countries. There were no details on what help it would be providing, but experts say the outbreak is desperately short of health care workers.Konneh, the finance minister, also told The Associated Press in an interview that the outbreak has ravaged Liberia's already fragile economy, and the government predicts the crisis will more than halve the growth rate this year. He added that the government also hopes the international community will help rebuild Liberia after the crisis passes.An unrelated Ebola outbreak in Congo is thought to have killed 35 people of the more than 60 sickened, according to the World Health Organization.___Paye-Layleh reported from Monrovia, Liberia. Associated Press journalist Michael Weissenstein in Havana contributed to this report.HealthPublic HealthWorld Health OrganizationLiberiaEbola





Click to view comments


View Comments (50)











 











   What to read next            Trending     Netherlands says OK for biker gangs to fight Islamic State         Airline Apologizes for Flight Attendant's Treatment of Soldier Sponsored            Trending     Exhibition of Syria torture photos shows 'depravity' of Assad regime          Trending     Beauty and the beast          Trending     Dallas nurses cite sloppy conditions in Ebola care         Second Dallas nurse with Ebola was on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143 Sponsored            Trending     Nurse infected with Ebola knew risks of her work          Trending     Ann Romney: If Mitt had been elected president ‘I do not believe there …          Trending     Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project          Trending     Best Brother Ever? Oregon Man Keeps Childhood Promise, Splits $1 Million …       
   Latest Slideshows            Photos   View   Ebola virus facts         Hong Kong protests Sponsored Reuters           Photos   View   Photos of the day - October 15, 2014          Photos   View   Drone flight causes near-international incident during soccer match          Photos   View   U.S. airstrikes in Syria         'Living On A Dollar A Day' wins IPA's best documentary book for 2014 Sponsored Yahoo News           Photos   View   Beauty and the beast          Photos   View   Photos of the day - October 14, 2014          Photos   View   The windows have it: famous architects silhouetted in pensive poses in …          Photos   View   Philippe Starck unveils line of eco-friendly prefab homes: in pictures       

   Top Stories                2nd Texas nurse with Ebola identified         It’s no Desert Storm. But it’s also no Operation Iraqi Liberation (OIL … Sponsored Yahoo News         Dow plunges 450 points            Play   Ann Romney's new ammunition in fight against MS              Report: U.S. troops injured by abandoned Iraqi chemical weapons         Trooper kills box-cutter wielding man on Ct. tour bus Sponsored Reuters               At soccer match, drone flight causes near-international incident              North, South Korea hold high-level military talks              Comet landing site picked for European space mission              Photo exhibition shows 'depravity' of Syria's Assad regime       



Copyright 2014 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.





Yahoo - ABC News Network


Help / Suggestions


Privacy


About Our Ads


Terms




































