  Sierra Leone under lockdown while residents suspected of having Ebola are cordoned off - The Daily Rapid  Sierra Leone under lockdown while residents suspected of having Ebola are cordoned off - The Daily Rapid






Top Stories
Political Blog
Government
Global Crisis
War Alerts
Live Feeds

RT Live Feed
Gaza Live Feed


News Tips
 

rss
twitter
pinterest
gplus
facebook





TRENDING Topics 

Ebola
Ebola Tracker (USA)
Obama
2014 Mid Terms
Immigration
Ukraine
Russia
Syria
Iraq
Israel
Palestine
 
 





Breaking



  Second Ebola-Infected Nurse Identified, Was Symptomatic With 99.5 Degree Fever While Flying
  ALERT: CDC Asking Passengers on Frontier Airlines Flight 1143 To Contact CDC
  BREAKING NEWS — SECOND HEALTHCARE WORKER AT DALLAS HOSPITAL TESTS POSITIVE FOR EBOLA
  ALERT: Hospital officials in Kansas City say patient at risk for Ebola
  Building explosion at 100 Carol Ave in Moonachie Bergen County New Jersey.
  ALERT: Possible Ebola Patient Lands At LAX
  ALERT: Passenger with ‘symptoms of Ebola’ at Shuttlesworth-International Airport in Alabama












October 15, 2014
 




 

BREAKING
U.S.
WORLD
POLITICS
Business
Law
War
Weather
Middle East
TECH
HEALTH
Science
Sports
OPINION












 Sierra Leone under lockdown while residents suspected of having Ebola are cordoned off



			Posted on   Sep 24 2014 - 3:27am  
			by   The Daily Headline



 « PREVIOUS  | 
		 NEXT »









 Categorized as  

Ebola
Featured
Global Crisis
Government
Health
 262 
 









Related 



Second Ebola-Infected Nurse Identified, Was Symptomatic With 99.5 Degree Fever While Flying





CDC Demands 132 Passengers That Flew With 2nd Ebola Patient Report For Testing





Passengers on flight with Ebola patient might be infected





CDC director now ‘rethinking’ Ebola strategy that he previously claimed was bulletproof





Ebola in Dallas: Blood, vomit and diarrhea-soaked hazardous materials piled to ceiling








(NaturalNews) According to pictures taken by The New York Times, the three day lockdown in Sierra Leone didn’t begin as planned, with residents resisting government orders and disregarding volunteers’ door-to-door advice. Last Friday, government desperation peaked in Sierra Leone, with officers ordering everyone in the country to remain indoors for three days. Trying to get the Ebola epidemic under control, the country enlisted police officers, soldiers and nearly 30,000 volunteers to go up to each house to educate residents on Ebola. Anyone suspected of having Ebola was to be identified, pulled away from the villages, and cordoned off at a temporary holding center.
Sierra Leonean President Ernest Bai Koroma’s radio address must have been haunting as he delivered the news of the countrywide lockdown. “Some of the things we are asking you to do are difficult, but life is better than these difficulties,” he voiced.
But as the lockdown began, it became obvious that the government was limited in mobilizing its army of door to door volunteers. The unpaid volunteers, mostly students, were reluctant to single out Ebola victims in their door-to-door search and had very little if no disinfecting supplies to pass out. With nearly 6 million residences to check in Sierra Leone, volunteers definitely had their work cut out for them.
Police and volunteers going door to door disregarded by Sierra Leone villagers
The unpaid volunteers got off to a late start last Friday. As The New York Times reports, many villages never even saw volunteers. Many of the volunteers wanted to give up after getting no response knocking on several doors. Many of the villagers were uninterested in assistance if there was no soap or chlorine being given out. Some volunteers report seeing contagious victims still frolicking about, not willing to be contained. When some villagers were approached, they appeared visibly dazed.
As soon as victims were identified in the villages, they were to be taken and held at holding centers. In Sierra Leone’s capital, Freetown, there is no large-scale treatment center. According to reports, it often took many hours for an ambulance to even arrive after a victim was identified. On top of that, proper treatment facilities were hours away still, and also brimming with patients.







Ambulances taking hours to pick up victims
During the first day of the lockdown in Freetown, one woman could be seen lying in a fetal position on the streets in front of some locked-up stores. Volunteers were reluctant to approach, noticing that the woman had a high fever. After waiting for five hours for an ambulance, volunteers nearly gave up hope. “They are not responding; they say they have lots of cases now,” said a volunteer named Alhassan Kamara. Many of the volunteers didn’t even have the proper protective gear or even something as simple as chlorine to disinfect with, so many shied away from contact with the severely ill. Going door to door to warn people is about all the volunteers were capable of, and it wasn’t working as planned.
If an ambulance did make it to a victim, there wasn’t much that could be done. At the treatment centers, “There were not enough beds, space,” said Dr. Dan Lucey, an American volunteer working at an Ebola holding center in Freetown. Dr. Lucey reported that patients were being turned away and driven up to four hours away to be treated in different hospitals. “When you first see this, you say this is totally intolerable. It can’t be this bad,” he said after returning home. “It was an incredible, searing experience not like anything I’ve ever seen.”
Learn all these details and more at the FREE online Pandemic Preparedness course at www.BioDefense.com
Sources:
http://www.nytimes.com
http://science.naturalnews.com

Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/046998_Ebola_Sierra_Leone_lockdown.html#ixzz3EEAkRIOY
Share this:MoreLike this:Like Loading...












About the Author
The Daily Headline




The Daily Rapid is a news, information gathering platform, and alternative news site brought to you by a like minded and dedicated staff.









Sponsor 





Subscribe  
                Subscribe to our email mailing list and receive the days top story's everyday.         





FBF ▪ Powered by ®Google Feedburner



Follow Us On Pinterest Visit The Daily Rapid's profile on Pinterest.
POLITICAL ILLUSTRATION
 


Sponsor 

Follow UsMy TweetsSponsor 
  
Recent Posts



 Second Ebola-Infected Nurse Identified, Was Symptomatic With 99.5 Degree Fever While FlyingOctober 15, 2014, No Comments 



 CDC Demands 132 Passengers That Flew With 2nd Ebola Patient Report For TestingOctober 15, 2014, No Comments 



 Passengers on flight with Ebola patient might be infectedOctober 15, 2014, No Comments 



 CDC director now ‘rethinking’ Ebola strategy that he previously claimed was bulletproofOctober 15, 2014, No Comments 



 Ebola in Dallas: Blood, vomit and diarrhea-soaked hazardous materials piled to ceilingOctober 15, 2014, No Comments 



Sponsor 














 

DMCA / FAIR USE NOTICE
PRIVACY
TERMS OF USE
NEWS TIPS
CONTACT US












 Google+
 





  
 


Most Viewed Posts 


  Virologist: ‘It’s Too Late, Ebola Will Kill 5 Million’
 - 2641  views
   


  United Airlines scrambles to alert HUNDREDS of passengers who came in contact with Ebola patient
 - 1826  views
   


  FBI Says No One Killed at Sandy Hook
 - 1556  views
   


  BREAKING — 1,000 Texas National Guard troops ordered to help guard Mexico border.
 - 1433  views
   


  Horrifying crash scene footage of #MH17
 - 1315  views
   


  Ukraine air traffic controller suggests Kiev military shot down passenger plane
 - 1242  views
   


  Border Town to Spend More than Half a Mil Aiding Influx
 - 1235  views
   



 


Follow Us TwitterMy Tweets 


Earthquake UpdatesMy Tweets 










Copyright © 2014 The Daily Rapid, All Rights Reserved. | This site contains copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. Read Here |  Back to top 
 
 












We are looking for contributors for The Daily Rapid. If you are a writer or blogger get in contact with us!  

Sign Up 







 














Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			



%d bloggers like this:




















