Ebola outbreak brings our concerns into reality | NECSIEbola outbreak brings our concerns into reality | NECSI







About 

About NECSI
About Complex Systems
News

Faculty
Affiliates
Researchers and Staff
Books and Journals
Online Resources


Research 

Overview

Economics
Multiscale Method
Social Systems
Ethnic Violence
Networks
Healthcare
Evolution and Systems Biology
Education
Engineering
Military Conflict
Business
Sports


Education 

Courses in Complexity

Executive Education


Conferences 

Upcoming Events
ICCS
Video Archive


Opportunities 

Courses in Complexity
Professional Programs
Collaborate with us

NECSI Positions
Position Application Form
External Faculty Fellows
External Student Fellows
Guest Lecturers



Donate
Membership












Ebola outbreak brings our concerns into reality



Article:E.M. Rauch and Y Bar-Yam, Long-Range Interaction and Evolutionary Stability in a Predator-Prey System. Physical Review E 73, 020903, 2006.



Download PDF





How the latest Ebola strain may escape to kill again another day
CAMBRIDGE (Sep 2, 2014) – When Korean Air announced last month it would halt its three weekly 

            flights to Nairobi due to fears of an Ebola pandemic in Liberia and Sierra 

            Leone — both of which are several thousand miles away — critics accused the 

            airline of overreacting. As the pandemic spread — first to Nigeria, and then to 

            Congo — airlines have steadily canceled flights to afflicted nations to limit the 

            risk, despite the protestations of the World Health Organization. But research 

            conducted by the New England Complex Systems Institute in 2006 suggests the 

            airlines’ de facto quarantine is correct.
When it comes to pandemics, it only takes a little global connectedness to 

            trigger a cascade of infections. The outbreak of Ebola raging in West Africa—

            labeled a Public Health Emergency of International Concern by the World Health 

            Organization—echoes a scenario mapped out by NECSI in 2006. In a computer 

            simulation of pathogens and hosts, long-range routes of transmission — most 

            prominently, international air routes — can allow the deadliest viral strains to 

            outrun their own extinction, and in the process kill vastly more victims than they 

            would have otherwise.
In an evolutionary model accounting for spatial distribution, a pathogen like the 

            Ebola virus can cause its own demise by killing all the hosts in its immediate 

            vicinity. If there is no one left alive to infect, a viral strain will die off. Successful 

            pathogens leave their hosts alive long enough to spread infection. Typically, the 

            most virulent mutations burn themselves out, and a stable balance is achieved 

            between host and pathogen. But avenues of long-range dispersal break this 

            pattern.
Ebola cannot spread through the air; infection can only be transmitted through 

            close contact with bodily fluids. Yet, in the age of global travel, patients in the 

            dormant stage of infection can travel long distances before showing signs of 

            illness, creating epicenters of secondary infection in geographically distant 

            locations. Long-distance travel thus gives an unnatural advantage to the most 

            virulent strains, allowing them access to new hosts even if they wipe themselves 

            out at the local scale.
The most relevant features of NECSI’s model to the current crisis is the critical 

            threshold of connectedness at which a virulent strain can spread out of control. 

            Even if a system seems stable, it may only take a few more routes of travel 

            to trigger secondary outbreaks. “It wouldn’t take much for the current Ebola 

            outbreak to spread to more countries or continents,” says NECSI president 

            Yaneer Bar-Yam. “It only takes one infected individual making it through an 

            airport checkpoint.” There is no cure for the Ebola virus; only early detection and 

            basic medical care can improve a patient’s chance of survival. Thus, awareness 

            of how quickly the scales of transmission can tip is paramount to getting the 

            current outbreak under control and preventing more from starting.

About NECSI: The New England Complex Systems Institute is a research and education institute based in Cambridge, MA. A pioneer in the field of complex systems science, NECSI addresses questions previously considered to be outside of the realm of scientific inquiry. Its research draws on foundations from mathematics, physics, and computer science to solve pressing problems in such areas as economics, healthcare, education, military conflict, ethnic violence, and international development. Its goal is to expand the boundaries of knowledge and to solve problems of science and society. www.necsi.edu




NECSI on Ebola 

Stopping Ebola Globally and in West Africa
Response to CDC Director Frieden
DRAFT New Ebola Response Strategy
The Threat of Ebola in the West
Ebola Response FAQ
Effective Ebola Response
Ebola outbreak brings our concerns into reality
Pathogen-Host Evolutionary model
Executive Summary on Infection Control



News Coverage:


		This Mathematical Model from 2006 Shows How Ebola Could Wipe Us Out
by Jordan Pearson








A cascade of infection starting in Africa.




A cascade of infection starting in Asia.




A cascade of infection starting in New York City, which 
            is stopped after all major airports are affected.








Tweet







 

 
Phone: 617-547-4100 | Fax: 617-661-7711 | Email: office at necsi.edu
 210 Broadway Suite 101 Cambridge, MA USA

 
 


 





