
    Killings in Guinea show mistrust in Africa Ebola fight:  WHO
| Top News
| Reuters


    Killings in Guinea show mistrust in Africa Ebola fight:  WHO
| Top News
| Reuters













































































Wed 15 Oct 2014 | 19:38 GMT
You are here:

Home
    
      >
      News 
      
      >
      Top News 
      
      >
      Article






Home
News
News by Country
Top News
Sport
World
Oddly Enough
Investing
Video







AlertNet
Humanitarian News










About Thomson Reuters
















Killings in Guinea show mistrust in Africa Ebola fight:  WHO
Fri Sep 19, 2014 4:03pm GMT 





Print | Single Page

			[-]
			Text
			[+]
	






By Stephanie Nebehay



GENEVA (Reuters) - The killing in Guinea of eight people trying to educate locals about Ebola showed how much rural populations in West Africa mistrust authorities after years of instability and conflict, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Friday.



Eight bodies were found after an attack on a team visiting remote southeastern Guinea, a government spokesman said on Thursday, showing the dangers faced by health workers fighting the deadly virus that is surrounded by suspicion and stigma.    



Guinea was crippled by decades of corruption and political instability, and the other countries worst hit by the outbreak, Sierra Leone and Liberia, suffered civil wars in the 1990s. The legacy of these traumas now poses a risk to health workers battling Ebola, WHO expert Pierre Formenty said.



"This population in the forested area has really suffered a lot in the last 20 years. They are in a post-conflict behaviour, there is lack of trust obviously between these populations and the different governments for the three countries," Formenty told a news briefing in Geneva upon return from Liberia.



Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone are reeling from the Ebola epidemic that has killed at least 2,630 since March, including eight in Nigeria, according to WHO figures.



"We need to continue the combat against Ebola, we need to investigate these murders, but it should not stop us. We should continue the dialogue with the community, we should continue to explain our work, continue to show our empathy with the victims, with the families, with the communities," Formenty said.



"Without that we will not be able to make our messages understood by the population. And we will not be able to control it (the outbreak)," he said.



Asked whether the WHO epidemiologists and other aid workers would take extra security measures, he said: "Vis-a-vis the additional precautions, the zero risk does not exist. 
  Continued...



View article on single page

























 
 
 
 

 

















Latest AlertNet Crises News







 
Powered by Reuters AlertNet. AlertNet provides news, images and insight from the world's disasters and conflicts and is brought to you by Reuters Foundation.










af.reuters.com: 
		Help and Contact Us
Thomson Reuters Corporate: 
		Copyright  | 
		Disclaimer  | 
		Privacy Policy  | 
		Careers
 
International Editions :

Africa  | 
		Arabic  | 
		Argentina  | 
		Brazil  | 
		Canada  | 
		China  | 
		France  | 
		Germany  | 
		India  | 
		Italy  | 
		Japan  | 
		Latin America  | 
		Mexico  | 
		Russia  | 
		Spain  | 
		United Kingdom  | 
		United States
 
Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.




























