BBC News - Sierra Leone's Ebola lockdown will not help, says MSFBBC News - Sierra Leone's Ebola lockdown will not help, says MSF












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























6 September 2014
Last updated at 21:07


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Sierra Leone's Ebola lockdown will not help, says MSF









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























Sierra Leone Justice Minister Frank Kargbo: "This is not a decision that was taken lightly"




Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 A three-day lockdown announced by Sierra Leone to combat Ebola will not help contain the virus, medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) says.
The charity said a lockdown would force people underground, destroy trust between doctors and the public and ultimately help spread the disease.
Sierra Leone officials say the measure, due to begin on 19 September, will let health workers isolate new cases.
About 2,100 people in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea have so far died.
MSF, whose staff are helping to tackle the outbreak, said in a statement that quarantines and lockdowns "end up driving people underground and jeopardising the trust between people and health providers".
"This leads to the concealment of potential cases and ends up spreading the disease further," the group  said.
Continue reading the main story






Ebola deaths in West Africa
            
                             Up to 12 October


4,493
Deaths -probable, confirmed and suspected



(Includes one death in US)




2,458 Liberia 


843 Guinea 


1183 Sierra Leone 


8 Nigeria 


Source: WHO

Getty







Umaru Fofana, BBC News, Freetown
Information Minister Alpha Kanu admits the lockdown is an extraordinary measure that will cause huge inconvenience, but he says it is needed to stem the spread of a disease which has killed over about 500 of his people. 
Despite criticism from MSF, Mr Kanu insists that the measure "will minimise the spread of the virus", and he is urging people to stock up on food, telling them: "We did it during the war." 
Never since the rebel invasion of Freetown in 1999 have I seen fear on the faces of people like in recent times. Even so, many people feel three days is too long to be asked to stay indoors. Many others feel three days is too short to achieve the government's aim of restricting the virus. 





Ebola has caused widespread fear in Freetown

Sierra Leonean officials earlier said more than 20,000 people would be deployed to make sure residents stayed indoors.
Health ministry spokesman Sidie Yahya Tunis told the BBC he did not expect the public to object.
"You follow or else you'll be breaking the law. If you disobey then you are disobeying the president," he said.
The BBC's West Africa correspondent Thomas Fessy says the Sierra Leone population's willingness to obey will be key for the plan to succeed.
A forcible implementation is likely to raise human rights issues and could potentially spark violent demonstrations, he says.
Last month, Liberia sealed off a large slum in the capital, Monrovia, for more than a week in an attempt to contain the virus.
The disease infects humans through close contact with infected animals, including chimpanzees, fruit bats and forest antelope.
It then spreads between humans by direct contact with infected blood, bodily fluids or organs, or indirectly through contact with contaminated environments.
Officials in Nigeria have meanwhile decided to reopen schools in the country from 22 September. They were closed as a precaution to prevent the spread of the virus.



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Spread by body fluids, such as blood and saliva
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but current outbreak has mortality rate of about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no proven vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats, a delicacy for some West Africans, are considered to be virus's natural host



Separately, a US doctor infected with Ebola is being treated in a Nebraska hospital after evacuation from Liberia.
Rick Sacra, 51, was described as sick but stable. He is the third American aid worker infected. The other two recovered after treatment in Atlanta.
On Friday, the WHO announced that the blood of patients who recovered from Ebola should be used to treat others.
People produce antibodies in the blood in an attempt to fight off an Ebola infection. The antibodies may be able to help a sick patient's immune system if they are transferred.
However, large scale data on the effectiveness of the therapy is lacking.




More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch




















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












