BBC News - Ebola outbreak: Guinea declares emergencyBBC News - Ebola outbreak: Guinea declares emergency












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























14 August 2014
Last updated at 14:56


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola outbreak: Guinea declares emergency


Guinea was the first country to be hit by the epidemic earlier this year


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 Guinea has a declared a national health emergency as it battles to curb the spread of the deadly Ebola virus.
This meant tighter border controls, the immediate isolation of anyone suspected to have Ebola and a ban on moving bodies from one town to another, state radio reported. 
Ebola has killed more than 1,000 people in West Africa amid fears that it could spread to East Africa. 
This is the deadliest outbreak since the disease was discovered in 1976. 
There is no cure for Ebola, but the first consignment of the experimental drug, ZMapp, has arrived in  Liberia from the US, reports the BBC's Jonathan Paye-Layleh from the capital, Monrovia. 
On Tuesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) approved giving patients untested drugs. 
Ebola's initial flu-like symptoms can lead to external haemorrhaging from areas such as eyes and gums, and internal bleeding which can lead to organ failure. Patients have a better chance of survival if they receive early treatment.
Nurse 'skipped quarantine'
The outbreak began in Guinea in February and has killed 377 people in the country.
It has since spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria, which have all declared a national health emergency, claiming a total of 1,069 lives by Wednesday, according to WHO. 



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but the current outbreak is about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats are considered to be virus' natural host



Guinea's President Alpha Conde, in a statement read out on state radio, said people who had been in contact with Ebola victims were "formally banned from leaving their homes until the end of their surveillance  period".
Anyone who contravened the measures would be considered "a threat to public health and will face the might of the law", the statement said.
In Nigeria, where a third person died of Ebola on Tuesday, Health Minister Onyebuchi Chukwu said a doctor had been infected, bringing to 11 the number of confirmed cases in Africa's most populous state. 
The doctor had initially treated Liberian government employee Patrick Sawyer, who brought the disease to Nigeria's main city, Lagos, last month and died in quarantine, Mr Chukwu said.  
He added that a nurse who also caught Ebola from Mr Sawyer was in an isolation ward in Lagos - the only place in Nigeria so far affected by Ebola. 


Bodily fluids spread the virus

On Wednesday, Nigeria's information minister said the nurse had been brought back to Lagos after disobeying medical instructions by travelling to the eastern city of Enugu. 
Labaran Maku said 21 people who had contact with her in Enugu were "being watched" but the health minister said the number was six. 
In other developments:

 Nigeria has withdrawn from the Youth Olympics in China, due to start on Saturday, after Chinese officials quarantined its athletes
 Korean Air Lines says it will stop flying to Kenya from 20 August after WHO identified it as a "high-risk" country for the spread of Ebola.
 Kenya Airways has rejected pressure from the local medical association to suspend all flights to Ebola-hit states, saying the WHO has not recommended a ban on air travel.
 This is the first time West Africa has been affected by Ebola - previous outbreaks have affected East and Central Africa.



Ebola: Mapping the outbreak




 Outbreak of an undetermined viral haemorrhagic fever begins in Guinea in February
 Identified as Ebola in March
 Researchers have since traced the first case to the death of two-year-old Guinean child in December 2013





More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch














Related Internet links


World Health Organization




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites







Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












