Understanding the Diseases: Ebola hemorrhagic feverUnderstanding the Diseases: Ebola hemorrhagic fever





























































Understanding the Diseases































































































Thursday, September 18, 2014







Ebola hemorrhagic fever






Ebola hemorrhagic fever

Definition:

Ebola is a virus-type disease which the agent is called Ebola-Virus. After this virus makes his way to the body, will start a fever with bleeding which is fatal in 50 to 90% of patient at all condition. First Ebola virus had been discovered at 1976 in one of Sudan province and near Congo. This virus made his way through other African country and killed some people there. Now this virus spread outside of Africa border. This virus is named after a river in Congo.





Transmission:

Scientist believe that virus transmit through animals. This virus can mainly attack Monkeys, chimpanzees and human. This virus spotted also in other animals like bats. Humans are not a vector to Ebola virus and they get infected. The outbreak of virus and the transmission of it from animals remained undiscovered. Infected humans can transmit this virus via body liquid like blood or anything which met an infected body fluid like syringe needles or other medical equipment. The symptoms will appear between 2 to 21 days after the initial contact.



Symptoms:

The patients will visit the doctor with a sudden fever, extreme weakness, muscle pain, headache and sore throat. Usually after a short period from the first symptoms Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, rash, impaired kidney and liver function and internal and external bleeding will occur and the patient condition will be critical. After a week the symptoms would be Chest pain, shock, and then death. Some might also get blind and bleed. The symptoms are not general and not all patients have the same experience. Researchers still do not know why a minority will survive and get well.



Treatment:

There is no specific method of treatment yet and they are mainly consist of supportive actions like keeping blood pressure, keep liquid balanced and breathing aid. Several years ago doctors tried to inject survived patient blood to the infected patients. The outcome was good with a state of 7 out of 8 successfully treated. In Libya a medicine called “Zmapp” successfully treated several patients but it is not officially approved by United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).



Prevention:

The important rule is not to have a contact with patient. Health care staff should always wear masks, gloves and glasses. The patients should be immediately quarantined and if he/she is dead no contact should be established. WHO believes that regular control of agricultural field and disinfection of animals with Bleach (Natriumhypochlorit (NaClO)) will help to stop the disease spread. All animals which suspected to be infected should be quarantined and the dead burned. Recently American researchers developed a vaccine with a positive outcome on monkeys. This vaccine developed by National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and GlaxoSmithKline. This vaccine is a two genetically modified Ebola viruses which the human testing is started in US and the UK and Africa are the next.




A lot of research are going on regarding this disease and every second is something new discovered. I tried to bring the most updated version until now. 

Follow us on:
Twitter






Facebook




at

1:32 AM











Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest



Labels:
Infectious diseases









4 comments:




Ian M MackaySeptember 21, 2014 at 11:42 PMBats are thought o be the natural host from there to animals and us, or indirectly though animals. Bats don't seem to get ill from an Ebola virus infection though. 2 vaccines are going through safety trials in humans now. One based on an adenovirus with 2 different ebolavirus glycoproteins, the other based on vesicular stomatitis virus with bits of Ebola virus added. But scaling to get enough doses to be useful in stopping the outbreak could take months and months. Not sure where you get that NaClO (?) comment from. Not somehting I have ever seen. Please provides some referencesReplyDeleteBehrad KharamanSeptember 22, 2014 at 1:13 AMHi.First of all you really made this topic specific as I didnt want to do so. My goal is to write it as easy and understanable as possible.Yes I did mentioned that they spotted Virus in Bats but Ebola can attack primates and of course bats are not infected. When you want to make an adenovirat to produce Ebola glycoproteins you have to move its coding gen to that ADV. Also the other type had been modified to vector specific Ebola gen. For NaClo just read this article from Public Health Agency of Canada:http://www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/lab-bio/res/psds-ftss/ebola-eng.phpor the WHO:http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/130596/1/WHO_HIS_SDS_2014.4_eng.pdf?ua=1&ua=1just search for "Bleach".Nature journals also pointed that.As I wrote in my early posts I did not want to make it complicated and I want this blog for people without special knowledge like scientist or doctors.Thank you to comment and I wish you a nice day.ReplyDeleteIan M MackaySeptember 22, 2014 at 5:52 AMI'd recommend you say "bleach" if you want t0 keep things simple.Bats are thought to be infected naturally. They spread it to animals and humans on occasion. Bats are possibly the most important animal for the rare human acquisitionReplyDeleteBehrad KharamanSeptember 22, 2014 at 11:23 AMThanks, I edited the article. For the bat you are completly right. I have no comment on that.ReplyDeleteAdd commentLoad more...























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)











Dieser Blog ist auch auf Deutsch verfügbar. Lesen Sie der hier.











Categories



About Blog
(3)


Infectious diseases
(4)


Neurology
(4)




















Search


Loading...













Share It
















Popular Posts



Ebola hemorrhagic fever


Alzheimer's disease


Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)  


Multiple Sclerosis (MS)


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)


































































Travel template. Template images by Raycat. Powered by Blogger.

































