‘Ebola: God is our only hope in Liberia’ | The Nation‘Ebola: God is our only hope in Liberia’ | The Nation










Google+













 
Home
About Us
Advert Rates
Archives
Jobs
Videos
Subscribe to Newsletter
Sporting Life Advert Rates







 
The Nation A news breaking website. Truth in Defence of Freedom

 
   



News
Columnists

Monday

Sam Omatseye
Soji Omotunde
Emeka Omeihe
Femi Macaulay


Tuesday

Olatunji Dare
Olakunle Abimbola
Sanya Oni
Waheed Odusile


Wednesday

Mohammed Harunna
Dele Agekameh
Tony Marinho


Thursday

Gbenga Omotoso
Lawal Ogienagbon
Dapo Fafowora
Jide Osuntokun
Jide Oluwajuyitan
Gbogun gboro


Friday

Segun Gbadegesin
Olatunji Ololade
Mobolaji Sanusi
Femi Abbas
Steve Osuji


Saturday

Segun Ayobolu
Ade Ojeikere
Yomi Odunuga
Dayo Sobowale
Victor Akande
Hannatu Musawa


Sunday

Tatalo Alamu
Idowu Akinlotan
Festus Eriye
Biodun Jeyifo
Ropo Sekoni
Femi Orebe
Tunji Adegboyega
Lekan Otufodunrin




Politics
Business

Infotech
Aviation
Money
Maritime
Capital Market
Building & Properties
Motoring
Jobs
Insurance
Industry
Energy
Agriculture
Equities
Labour
Brand week
Shopping
Transportation


Editorial

Hardball
Cartoon


sports
HEALTH
Entertainment

Celebrity


Magazine

Niger Delta
Northern Report
SouthEast
Southwest
Saturday Magazine

Weekend Treat

Happenstances
Life and Style
Promenade


Crime Diary
Family Matters
Fashion


Sunday magazine

Glamour
Young Nation




Education

Campus Life


Feminique
 




Home » Lekan Otufodunrin » ‘Ebola: God is our only hope in Liberia’
 




‘Ebola: God is our only hope in Liberia’

Posted by: Lekan Otufodunrin 
in Lekan Otufodunrin
August 10, 2014



For Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, these are not the best of times, considering the impact of the Ebola disease on the countries which are the hardest hit.
I got an idea of how an average citizen of one of the countries feels about the situation when my colleague, George Sarwah Stewart Jr Coordinator, Media Development Group, Path and Chair of the Liberia Christian Journalists Network, sent me a facebook message saying “we are living in fear and worry in Monrovia.
“God is our only hope right now. Government can’t stand anyone,” he stated.
To get the full picture of the situation back in Liberia and his views on the issue, I sent him some questions which he promptly responded to.
Excerpts from the interview are as follows:
How will you describe the situation in Liberia and other parts of the country since the outbreak of Ebola disease, especially the death of Mr Patrick Sawyer from Liberia in Nigeria?
The situation of Ebola in Liberia and three other countries including Nigeria is troubling and threatening to the whole of West Africa.  Specifically for Liberia, the virus has killed farmers, rural community dwellers and health workers.  It has shot down villages and instilled fear in ordinary and impoverished Liberians.
The virus has disintegrated the Mano River Union Basin and West Africa. There are restrictions and blockage on cross-board travels.  Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea share common borders such as river, parcels of land that allows cross-borderline farming. Along the Mano River, there are same tribal groups, intermarriages and similar cultural practices. These cross-border values and way-of-life are being hampered and cut off to some extent because of the Ebola outbreak.
West African citizens enjoy free movement with minimum immigration control within the region. Unfortunately, the Ebola virus has extended its wicked hands against the smooth movement of West Africans within their own region.
What has been the reaction of the people to the declaration of state of emergency in your country and how is it affecting life generally?
There are mixed reactions.  Some think it’s appropriate, others think it’s belated, while another set wants to wait to see the impact of the State of Emergency on curbing Ebola.  Already, the State of Emergency has taken hold of the country for fact that movement of people from Western Liberia connecting Sierra Leone are prevented from coming to Monrovia by Liberian soldiers. The army has set roadblocks and checkpoints preventing free movement.   Business women are spending their second day at one of the checkpoints 3 miles from Monrovia.
What are your personal concerns about this issue and what do you think should be done to prevent spread of the disease?
I am concerned about the late response of our governments against Ebola when the virus could have been contained earlier.  When the virus showed signs in Guinea-Liberia border sometimes in February, it was the most appropriate time for containment, but little was done until the virus killed medical doctors and other health workers as well as poor community dwellers.
I’m also concerned about the closure of health facilities in Liberia.  This is leading to the death of others outside of Ebola.  There are curable sicknesses taking the lives of Liberians simply because no health facilities.
Are you hopeful that the problem will be solved soon?
This is where my faith as a Christian comes in.  Our government is quite confused and has shown no real strength. Only God is able to cleanse our nation and the rest of West Africa of this disease.
Full text of interview online www.thenationonlineng.net


Ebola Guinea Liberia Sierra-Leone 2014-08-10
Lekan Otufodunrin



tweet
















Tagged with: Ebola Guinea Liberia Sierra-Leone
 

Previous: Iorfa charges Lobi players: Beat Sharks
Next: What and where? : Operation PUSH in Lagos



Related Articles





 

U.S records another Ebola case
7 hours ago




 

World not doing enough to contain Ebola – Obama
9 hours ago




 

UN worker dies of Ebola in Germany
1 day ago


Lawmaker hails govt on Ebola
2 days ago




 

Liberian strike ‘could hurt’ Ebola efforts
2 days ago











The Latest 
 

AFCON: Nigeria defeats Sudan 3-1
2 hours ago


HDI supports widows,ophans children
2 hours ago


Nigeria drifting towards tyranny under Jonathan – Akande
2 hours ago


Presidency denies tenure elongation plot
3 hours ago


Climate change: German to spend N10b in West Africa
4 hours ago


AFCON qualifier: Akpan, Samuel in Eagles’ starting XI
4 hours ago


EFCC withdraws fraud charge against Ajudua
5 hours ago


Buhari declares for presidency
6 hours ago


FEC hold farewell session for Maku, Obanikoro, five others
7 hours ago


U.S records another Ebola case
7 hours ago



 


 

Archives

October 2014


M
T
W
T
F
S
S




« Sep
 
 




 12345


6789101112


13141516171819


20212223242526


2728293031
 


 Past Archives
 Archive 1 (2006-2008)
Archive 2 (articles before June 22nd 2010)
Archive 3 (articles before April 16 2011)
Archive 4 (articles between April 2011 and September 20, 2012)

 


 More from Lekan Otufodunrin
 
Linda Ikeji: matters arising
Oyo: Quintessential Journalist
Oyedepo: The secret of a man
Journalists on ‘marble’
Stranded in Jamaica

 Stay Connected
 
 
 




 
 


 

 
 




 



 

 






 

© 2013, Powered By Zero-One 





 






