Ebola: British man begins treatment in London hospital

      web analytics











Ebola: British man begins treatment in London hospital










































 








15October2014 

AdvertiseLoginRegister





I Paid A Bribe Naija





Search... 







FacebookTwitterRSS

 




HOMENEWS

MORE IN NEWSToday In HistoryWEIRD NEWSEFCCGENERALNNPCCRIME & CORRUPTION5TH REPUBLIC (Government)The GreatsPOLITICS
WORLD

MORE IN WORLDAMERICAEUROPEASIAAFRICA
SPORT

MORE IN SPORTNIGERIA PREMIER LEAGUEENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUEOTHER SPORTSBRAZIL2014
BIG BROTHER AFRICAENTERTAINMENT

MORE IN ENTERTAINMENTCELEBRITYCOMEDYGOSSIP
SCIENCEBUSINESS

MORE IN BUSINESSECONOMY
HEALTHFORUM
 


Skip to content
 





Hot




DHQ denies burying soldiers in mass grave



Jonathan honoured at ICT Centenary conference 



The world must unite against Boko Haram - Mark



Mark Zuckerberg donates $25million to fight Ebola



Wednesday's Word of the Day: Xylography	



Jonathan condoles with Oshiomhole over Tayo Akpata’s death 



Neymar in high spirit as he smashes Japan 4-0



Nigeria has nine kidney transplant centres - Minister



UN to provide nuclear help for faster Ebola diagnosis



Euro 2016: Ronaldo's 95th-minute goal rescued Portugal 







 









Skip to content
 







 


































			25 August 2014		


						
	  	Ebola: British man begins treatment in London hospital	  



font size

decrease font size



increase font size






Print





Email





					DISQUS_COMMENTS_COUNT:DISQUS_COMMENTS 





шаблоны RocketTheme
Форум вебмастеров
 





Doctors at a hospital in north-west London have begun treating a Briton who contracted Ebola in Sierra Leone. William Pooley, a 29-year-old volunteer nurse, was described by a charity he worked for



as a "hero".
 
Mr Pooley was flown to RAF Northolt in a specially equipped military aircraft on Sunday and taken under police escort to Hampstead's Royal Free Hospital.He volunteered to go to care for victims of the Ebola outbreak which has killed almost 1,500 people.
His is the first confirmed case of a Briton contracting the virus during the current outbreak.
'Remarkable man'
Mr Pooley, believed to be from near Woodbridge in Suffolk, was flown out of Sierra Leone's main airport in Lungi, in a RAF C-17 transport aircraft.
He will be treated in a specialist isolation unit for patients with highly infectious disease, the only one of its kind in Europe.
A special tent ensures medical staff can interact with the patient but are separated by plastic and rubber.
Mr Pooley had worked as a volunteer providing palliative care at The Shepherd's Hospice in Sierra Leone from March until July.
He then requested to be relocated to the Kenema Government Hospital to serve on the Ebola treatment ward, after he heard reports that patients were being abandoned when health workers died from the virus.
Gabriel Madiye, the executive director of The Shepherd's Hospice, said Mr Pooley had been aware of the risks, but was determined to work there.
"We consider him a hero," he said. "Somebody who is sacrificing to provide care in very difficult circumstances - when our own health workers are running away."
Last week, two Americans who had contracted the disease in Liberia made a recovery and were discharged from hospital after being given an experimental drug called ZMapp in the US.
Officials in Liberia also said three medical staff have shown signs of improvement after taking the drug.
The US manufacturer of ZMapp has said supplies of the drug are exhausted, but the Department of Health said it was working to source any remaining doses.
Department of Health deputy chief medical officer Prof John Watson has said the risk of Ebola to the UK remains "very low".
The World Health Organization has estimated 2,615 people in west Africa have been infected with Ebola since March.
Health officials have reported the first cases outside west Africa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The virus is spread between humans through direct contact with infected bodily fluids. It is one of the world's deadliest diseases, potentially with a mortality rate of 90%. However, the current outbreak has a fatality rate of 55%. 



Additional Info


Culled from:
BBC News


Priority (10 is Highest):
1






Текстиль для дома, Вышивка, Фурнитура, Ткани
автоновости
 








Rate this item



1
2
3
4
5

(0 votes)




Tagged under

Ebola virus
british








Tweet
















Latest from 


Leaders head north as PM urges Scotland to stay


Govt‘ll meet power expectations in two years, says Jonathan


Iceprince, NaetoC, Vector to judge rap battle


Satellite: NIGCOMSAT leases out  DTH platform to PPTV 


31 Vessels Laden with Petrol, commodities berth at Lagos Ports





Related items


Mark Zuckerberg donates $25million to fight Ebola


UN to provide nuclear help for faster Ebola diagnosis


Health worker who treated Thomas Duncan down with ebola in Texas


Ebola exercise to test Britain's readiness


 Ebola: Okonjo-Iweala warns against stigmatisation of Africa













			back to top		











 








 
Trending



Suicide deaths that shock the world
Ebola: FG hires 490 health officers
Ebola Virus is not Airborne, commissioner insists 
Breaking News: FG declares war on ASUU, orders VCs to advert…
2014 budget presentation postponed over NASS delay on MTEF d…
Top 9 signs your spouse is cheating


 


News Highlight



DHQ denies burying soldiers in mass grave
Jonathan honoured at ICT Centenary conference 
The world must unite against Boko Haram - Mark
Mark Zuckerberg donates $25million to fight Ebola
Wednesday's Word of the Day: Xylography	
Jonathan condoles with Oshiomhole over Tayo Akpata’s death 
Neymar in high spirit as he smashes Japan 4-0
Nigeria has nine kidney transplant centres - Minister
UN to provide nuclear help for faster Ebola diagnosis
Euro 2016: Ronaldo's 95th-minute goal rescued Portugal 
Freshly-divorced Kris Jenner desires a younger man
Bishops insist homosexuality still sin as Vatican plays down…


 


































Latest



DHQ denies burying soldiers in mass grave
Jonathan honoured at ICT Centenary conference 
The world must unite against Boko Haram - Mark
Wednesday's Word of the Day: Xylography	
Jonathan condoles with Oshiomhole over Tayo Akpata’s death 
15 teenagers die in Kano boat mishap 
Kim Kardashian Fears Kanye May Leave Her For Amber Rose
Jonathan promises more jobs for youths through research, tec…
Nigeria, Cameroon parley on operation against Boko Haram - D…
FG to review school curriculum over insecurity
FG generates N2.6tn in three months
Nigeria will unravel circumstances surrounding Alamieyeseigh…
Terrorism: We'll achieve greater success with Niamey agreeme…
Tiwa Savage turns petrol station attendant, pump fuel for mo…
Nigeria electricity market ready for trading – NERC
Four kidnapped Chibok schoolgirls escape from Boko Haram
Former Bayelsa governor DSP Alamieyeseigha's son killed in D…
FG approves more funding, policy bills for real sector


 


Prestads III





















 


Entertainment



Freshly-divorced Kris Jenner desires a younger man
Kim Kardashian Fears Kanye May Leave Her For Amber Rose
2face, Wizkid announce first international concert
Kim Kardashian crowned world's best butt 
Tiwa Savage turns petrol station attendant, pump fuel for mo…
"I have signed autographs on many boobs" - Sir Shi…
Justin Beiber caught partying with more than one girl in Rom…
Chris Brown's tattoo artiste shot dead
Diddy, Jennifer Lopez Club Together
Jennifer Lopez flashes 'killer' abs in sports bra (Photos)
Sexual harassment: Why I'm not yet famous in Nollywood - Ban…
Anxiety as entertainment world awaits Taiwo Oshadipe's autop…
D'banj named African Ambassador for Apple's Beats by Dre
Friday's Joke Of The Week: The earth rotates
Amber Rose, Wiz Khalifa working on reconciliation 
Kel makes nollywood debut
S.A organization demands $1million refund from Nicki Minaj
Jide Kosoko allegedly marries new wife after first marriage …


 






Most Read




 

Top 9 signs your spouse is cheating




 

2014 budget presentation postponed over NASS delay on MTEF document




 

Just For Laughs: Don Jazzy and his crew drops #PrincessKate skit video







Entertainment




 

Just For Laughs: Don Jazzy and his crew drops #PrincessKate skit video




 

2face Idibia drops #BringBackOurGirls song titled "Break The Silence"




 

Jennifer Lopez to perform at the WorldCup opening ceremony








 






























HomeNewsAfricaAmericaAsiaEuropeBusinessEntertaimentSportsTechAbout usPrivacy











 









Newsletter


Subscribe to Email Newsletter
 






Connect 


FacebookTwitter




 





Copyright © 2014 I Paid A Bribe Naija. All Rights Reserved. 


TOP
 



