
                	        		West Africa Ebola Outbreak (Updated October 8, 2014) » NetHope
        	        				
                	        		West Africa Ebola Outbreak (Updated October 8, 2014) » NetHope
        	        				
Skip to Page Content


NetHope Solutions Center
NetHope Academy

NetHope





About Us

Mission
History
Our Model
Our Team
Financials
FAQ
Member Global Summits
Where We Work


Our Members
Our Supporters
Our Programs

Connectivity
Emergency Response
Field Capacity Building
Shared Services
Innovation for Development
Global Broadband and Innovations


Press & Multimedia

Press Room
Press Kit
Videos
Photos


Get Involved

Donate Now
Tell a Friend
Learn about NGO Membership
For Foundations and Corporate Supporters
Stay Informed
Jobs and Consulting Opportunities
Solicitations for Grants, Goods & Services


Blog
Contact Us


Beta Site:Provide Feedback!






West Africa Ebola Outbreak (Updated October 8, 2014)














Make a Donation »






Our Tweets 

          @nethope_org

 Tweets by @nethope_org



Where we work

Click Here 
      to learn
       
      about our work
       
      around the world.
    


At a Glance
Organizational Update
Executive Brief

Sign up for our NetHope eNewsletter »





West Africa Ebola Outbreak (Updated October 8, 2014)














	NetHope, a consortium of 41 leading humanitarian NGOs in the world, is issuing this urgent funding appeal to support its information management and communication technology (ICT) related coordination in the West Africa Ebola crisis. Urgent assistance is needed to support the 18+ NetHope INGO member organizations that are actively involved in the response to the outbreak in the three countries in West Africa where cases have been confirmed: Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. Effective information sharing is one of the cornerstones for organized response and strengthening the organizations with communication capacity provides the tools for crucial public health messaging and ability to keep up to date with knowledge on the broader regional response.

	 

	Follow us on Twitter (@NetHope_org) and our Emergency Response Director Gisli Olafsson (@gislio) for more information. For more information how your organization can help, please contact Tina Lee (tina.lee@nethope.org).



Overall Situation

	As of September 28, 2014, the cumulative number of cases attributed to the Ebola in West Africa has surpassed 7,100 infected with over 3,300 reported deaths. Experts say that there is a very high likelihood of unreported deaths due to the poorcommunication infrastructure and stigma associated with being identified as a carrier. Caseloads continue grow exponentially, especially in Sierra Leone and Liberia. It is estimated that current 5 new people get infected every minute and that this number will increase to 10 new people per minute by the end of the year. The CDC predicts that by end of January 2015, up to 1.4 million people may be infected. The seriousness of this outbreak and its potential effects on not just the region and countries affected, but the global economy should not be underestimated. 

	 

	This is a transnational Ebola outbreak, and the ability to respond and contain is as much about empowering agencies, governing states, and communities with crucial information to protect themselves and strengthen the health response systems. ICT and information support systems can bring together organizations with disparate information systems to promote positive public health messages at the community level and dispel rumors NetHope members active in the Ebola stricken countries and responding are: ActionAid, Americares, Catholic Relief Services (CRS), Christian Aid, Concern Worldwide, Direct Relief, Global Communities, International Federation of Red Cross/Red Crescent (IFRC), International Medical Corps (IMC), International Rescue Committee (IRC), Mercy Corps, Plan International, Samaritan‘s Purse, Save the Children, and SOS Children‘s Villages. 

Emergency Response Requirements

	This funding appeal reflects the results of assessments of technology and information management related requirements from the NetHope member NGOs and other response organizations working in the countries affected by the Ebola outbreak. NetHope seeks cash and donated new equipment. In‐kind contributions will be shipped in bulk to the affected countries and allocated to NetHope member INGOs and other responders according to their highest priorities. 

	 

	NetHope is anticipating a six to nine month response effort, mainly focused on improving the sharing of information between the various organizations and entities involved in the outbreak through improved connectivity and use of technology for case tracking and public health messaging. NetHope’s response will focus on technology that strengthens our members’ NGOs ability, and the ability of other response organizations to continue key clinical and health logistics activities with better communication equipment, digital data collection equipment and smart devices for operating effectively in the field.  

	 

	Furthermore, NetHope will continue to focus on providing information sharing platforms to collectively share the situational awareness of our partner organizations, with particular focus on the transnational aspects of the outbreak. NetHope’s information sharing platforms will provide key linkages to coordinating bodies targeting key information resources and creating tailored products to fit the needs of our members and the rest of the response community. 

	 

	NetHope’s unique role as a trusted program leader/coordinator, convener, and facilitator in the information and technology space, enables it to bring together all of the separate entities involved, whether they are NGOs, UN agencies, donors, national governments, academia, private sector, and digital volunteers. This role enables NetHope to bring all the parties involved together, enable data to flow between them and to push back the aggregated information to the broad community. 

	 

	Through its network of members and partners in the affected countries, NetHope is conducting detailed assessment of the information and communication technology needs on the ground. Initial feedback from the field indicates that the current infrastructure does not have the capacity needed for an effective response. 

	 


		Furthermore, it indicates that there is a large human capacity issue when it comes to information and communication technology expertise. To address this human capacity issue, NetHope is building a list of “ready reserve” experts from members in the region and globally that is willing to deploy to the affected countries. 

		 

		NetHope  is  focusing  on  improving  internet  connectivity  in  rural  areas  of  Sierra Leone  and  Liberia, thereby  enabling  information  to  flow  both  to  the  responders  in the  field  and  back. This  area of  the world before the outbreak  had one of the worst communications  infrastructures  and  the  rapid  influx  of response  organizations  is putting a strain on an already fragile network. 

		 

		In addition to the connectivity and information management effort, the following in‐kind donations of new equipment are sought based on information derived from NetHope member NGO’s operating the region: 

		 

		• Up to 3000 Android based smartphones and/or tablets for digital data collection and contract tracing. 

		• Up to 300 laptops for improving computing resources at rural health facilities and response organization offices. 

		• Up to 100 portable satellite internet terminals (BGANs) with 3 months of bandwidth 

		• Up to 100 satellite phones with 3 months of talktime. 

		• 500+ 3G USB GSM modem sticks 

		• 500+ power banks for charging laptops/phones 

		• 500+ solar panels for charging laptops/phones 

		• 100+ mobile scanners for digitizing paper assessments 

		 

		To enable the information management effort and the coordination of the response the following cash support is sought: 


	 




Description

Total



				Assessments, Ready Reserve Staffing and Initial Information Sharing

				$400,000



				Connectivity improvements in Liberia - 30 locations

				$1,200,000




					Connectivity improvements in Sierra Leone - 25 locations


				$1,200,000



				Improved Situation Awareness and establishment of a Common Operational Picture across all countries

				$2,300,000



Total Funding Requirements 

				$5,100,000




	 

Situation Reports



Links to resources

Center for Disease Control (CDC) 
World Health Organization (WHO) 


Links to member sites

ActionAid: 
Americares: 
Catholic Relief Services (CRS): 
Christian Aid: 
Concern Worldwide: 
Direct Relief: 
Global Communities: 
International Federation of Red Cross/Red Crescent (IFRC): 
International Medical Corps (IMC): 
International Relief Committee: 
Plan International: 
Samaritan‘s Purse: 
Save the Children: 
SOS Children‘s Villages: 


Photos

Supporters


 
 







 			 
 					

				 
					
					

 	 
	
					
					

 			 

					

		 
	
				

    			© 2001 - 2014 NetHope Inc. NetHope is a registered 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. 
Privacy Policy.
Contact us.

 
 





