Infotainment: #Ebola: American Patients Discharged....Infotainment: #Ebola: American Patients Discharged....





























































Infotainment



NEWS * INFORMATION * OPINIONS * SPORTS* ENTERTAINMENT * MOTIVATIONAL TIPS * HEALTH TIPS*


























































































Friday, August 22








#Ebola: American Patients Discharged....











Dr Kent Brantly, 33, thanked supporters for their prayers at
a news conference in Atlanta. Nancy Writebol, 59, was discharged on Tuesday.



The two were brought to the US for treatment three weeks
ago.



The outbreak has killed more than 1,300 people in West
Africa, with many of the deaths occurring in Liberia.



“Today is a miraculous day,” said Dr Brantly, who appeared
healthy if pallid as he addressed reporters yesterday at Emory University
hospital.



“I am thrilled to be alive, to be well, and to be reunited
with my family. As a medical missionary, I never imagined myself in this
position.”




He said Ebola “was not on the radar” when he and his family
moved to Liberia in October.



After his family returned to the US as the Ebola outbreak
tore through West Africa, he continued to treat Ebola patients and woke up on
July 23 feeling “under the weather”.



Dr Brantly said he lay in bed for nine days, getting
progressively sicker and weaker. On 1 August, he was flown to Atlanta for
treatment at Emory.



Emory infectious disease specialist Dr Bruce Ribner said
after rigorous treatment and testing, officials were confident Dr Brantly had
recovered “and he can return to his family, his community and his life without
public health concerns”.



The group for which he was working in Liberia, Samaritan’s
Purse, said they were celebrating his recovery.

“Today I join all of our Samaritan’s Purse team around the
world in giving thanks to God as we celebrate Dr Kent Brantly’s recovery from
Ebola and release from the hospital,” Franklin Graham said in a statement.



Nancy Writebol’s husband David said in a statement that she
was free of the virus but was significantly weakened.



The family decided to leave the hospital privately in order
to allow her to rest and recuperate.





Both Dr Brantly and Mrs Writebol received an experimental
treatment known as ZMapp.



The drug, which has only been made in extremely limited
qualities, had never been tested on humans and it remains unclear if it is
responsible for their recovery.



ZMapp was also given to a Spanish priest, who died, and
three Liberian health workers, who are showing signs of improvement.








Posted by



tia ajayi




at

07:01
















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest












No comments:







Post a Comment
























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










Want to share news and information, contact me :

E : tiaajayi@gmail.com.











Search This Blog


Loading...













My Blog List










Stella Dimoko Korkus / Gossip...It Only Happens Here!




President Jonathan Swears In Permanent Secretaries + Gets African 
Leadership Award


                      -
                    

Swearing in of #New Permanent Secretaries today by President Jonathan at 
the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. President Jonathan gets his 
Africa...












Welcome to Linda Ikeji's Blog




Photos: Desmond Elliot meets with his supporters at Surulere


                      -
                    


Foremost Nollywood actor Desmond Elliot who recently declared his intention 
to run for the Lagos State House of Assembly has made good his ambition by 
con...












MojiDelano's Blog




Nollywood Stars Storm Port Harcourt For BON Awards


                      -
                    


It is yet one day to the 2014 edition of the Best of Nollywood Awards 
holding Thursday, October 16th, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, but the 
excitement a...












news360ng.com




"Pastor Chris Okotie Has Many Women"  Check Out Okotie's Reply To CAN


                      -
                    



Pastor Chris Okotie has replied the leadership of CAN who recently 
questioned his credibility as a Pastor and Christian after he asked for the 
resignatio...












MetroLens | Reliably Informative




The original Girlie O: Meet Patoranking’s sexy girlfriend (PHOTOS)


                      -
                    

Patoranking has unveiled the original ‘girlie o’, and yes, she’s very sexy 
and extremely hot. The dancehall star celebrated her on his Instagram page, 
wish...












Ayo Sogunro's Chaise




Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB | Love Letter from Ayo Sogunro


                      -
                    

Dearest Linda Ikeji, Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB Permit me 
the indulgence of a few …

Continue reading →


















About Me





tia ajayi




Tia is a cool young lady, conservative by nature. Passionate about Nigeria and liberal to different cultures, open minded and a football lover.

View my complete profile













































Popular Posts









BIZZARE: Bird Turns To Woman In Lagos After Colliding With Electric Wire.
    A bird reportedly turned into a woman this afternoon at  G-cappa Estate area of Ilupeju, Lagos,eyewitnesses at the scene, said  the bird...










HIV+ transsexual claims she had oral sex with O.J. Simpson in prison
    .         Jazmena Jameson, a former prostitute who is a transsexual and even said  to be HIV positive has claimed to having had  oral se...










Liberian Man That Took Ebola To US Dies..
            Thomas Eric Duncan,  the man with the first case of Ebola in the United States died yesterday, his health took a grave turn for ...










#Ebola: Health Worker In volved In Care Of US Index Case Infected.
        A health worker who helped in the treatment of Liberian man, Thomas Eric Duncan, who died on Wednesday October 8th, at the Texas Hea...










Kcee Calls Out Tiwa Savage To Respond To Marriage Crisis Rumours
        There has over the past few weeks been reports online that Mavin first lady Tiwa Savage was experiencing a marriage crisis and so fa...










Ex-Governor Alamieyeseigha's Son Found Dead In Dubai.
        Ex-Governor of Bayelsa state, Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, has lost one of his sons, Oyoms, in Dubai, United Arab Emirate accordin...










Group Drags President Jonathan And CAN President Ayo Oritsejafor To Court Over $9.3m Arms Deal.
                    A group led by Dr Saidu Ahmed Dukawa, have dragged  President Goodluck Jonathan and the Christian Association of Nigeria...










Taliban Ambush Afghan Security Forces, Killing 14....
    Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan have killed at least 22 security force members in an ambush in Sar-e-Pol province north of Kabul, offi...










Top Pastor Arrested For Impregnating Member And Sponsoring An Abortion.
      A pastor in Enugu State has been arrested for allegedly impregnating a female member of his ministry and went a step further to force ...










PDP Stalwarts Beg Olusegun Obasanjo To Forgive Them.
         For anyone that's still in doubt, well PDP has confirmed what we all know, which is that ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo is no s...















Videos


Loading...













Google+ Badge



Blog Archive




Blog Archive
October (82)
September (179)
August (204)
July (240)
June (244)
May (270)
April (13)
March (39)
February (5)














You are number























































Oluwatosin Ajayi. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by molotovcoketail. Powered by Blogger.


































