Drugs.com | Prescription Drug Information, Interactions & Side EffectsDrugs.com | Prescription Drug Information, Interactions & Side Effects


















Skip to Content


Browse all medications 
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
			  
			Advanced Search
			 
			Phonetic Search


Search:












Drugs A-Z


Pill Identifier


Interactions Checker


News


Health Professionals


Q & A


Mednotes


Apps












•
•
•
•



Having trouble identifying pills? Try the Pill Identifier
Quickly identify pills, tablets and capsules using the web's most comprehensive Pill Identification Wizard.

Get Started



Worried about drug interactions? Use the Interactions Checker
The drug interactions tool allows you to check for drug-drug and drug-food interactions.

Check Now



Discover treatment options with the new Symptom Checker
This interactive decision guide helps identify the underlying cause of common symptoms.

Get Started



Custom search for Medical Transcriptionists?
Use our custom wildcard and phonetic search to assist in identifying drugs where the exact spelling is unknown and only the pronunciation is available.

Get Started





Drugs.com is the most popular, comprehensive and up-to-date source of drug information online. Providing free, peer-reviewed, accurate and independent data on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines & natural products.

Featured Tools

Pill Identifier Identify your medication
Interactions Checker Check for drug interactions
Medical Transcription Phonetic search assistant

Drug Information

A to Z Drug List
Drugs by Condition
Drugs by Class
Dosage
Side Effects
Pregnancy Warnings
Harvard Health Guide
Generic Drugs
OTC Database
Inactive Ingredients
Veterinary Drugs
International Drugs
Info en Español
Pricing & Coupon Guide
Mayo Clinic Disease Reference

Tools

Interactions Checker
Pill Identifier
Symptom Checker
Medication Record
Mobile Apps
Drug Imprint Codes

News & Alerts

Medical News
Clinical Trial Results
FDA Drug Alerts
FDA Consumer Updates
New FDA Approvals
New Drug Applications
Video Center
Popular Articles
Health & Medication Slideshows

Professionals

Resource Center
Medical Dictionary
Medical Encyclopedia
Medical Conferences
Patient Care Notes





Top 100 Drugs


Top 100 by sales



Abilify
Accutane
Acetaminophen
Acyclovir
Adderall
Advair
Alprazolam
Amitriptyline
Amlodipine
Amoxicillin
Androgel
Aspirin
Ativan
Atorvastatin
Azithromycin
Baclofen
Belviq
Benadryl
Carvedilol
Celebrex
Celexa
Cephalexin
Cialis
Ciprofloxacin
Citalopram
Clindamycin
Clonazepam
Clonidine
Codeine
Cyclobenzaprine
Cymbalta
Diazepam
Diclofenac
Doxycycline
Effexor
Elavil
Eliquis


Fenofibrate
Flexeril
Fluoxetine
Gabapentin
Hydrochlorothiazide
Hydroxyzine
Ibuprofen
Januvia
Klonopin
Lantus
Levofloxacin
Levothyroxine
Lexapro
Lipitor
Lisinopril
Loratadine
Lorazepam
Losartan
Lyrica
Meloxicam
Metformin
Methadone
Methylphenidate
Metoprolol
Metronidazole
Mirena
Morphine
Mucinex
Naproxen
Neurontin
Nexium
Norco
Omeprazole
Opana
Oxycodone
Pantoprazole
Paroxetine


Penicillin
Percocet
Phentermine
Pradaxa
Pravastatin
Prednisone
Promethazine
Propranolol
Prozac
Qsymia
Risperdal
Ritalin
Seroquel
Sertraline
Simvastatin
Spironolactone
Suboxone
Symbicort
Synthroid
Tamiflu
Tamsulosin
Tramadol
Trazodone
Valium
Venlafaxine
Verapamil
Viagra
Vicodin
Vyvanse
Warfarin
Wellbutrin
Xanax
Xarelto
Zoloft
Zolpidem
Zolpidem
Zyrtec




More A-K ·
More L-Z ·
By Class ·
UK Medicines
 



For Consumers

MedFacts Drug Information
Cerner Multum Drug Information
Micromedex® Advanced Consumer
MedFacts Natural Products

For Professionals

FDA Professional Information
A-Z Drug Facts (Facts & Comparisons)
ASHP Monographs (AHFS DI)
Micromedex® Carenotes
MedFacts Natural Products

For Researchers

U.S. Pharmaceutical Sales Statistics
Pharmaceutical Company Directory

Announcements

Physician's Desk Reference (PDR)





Latest FDA New Drug Approvals



LumasonHarvoniHarvoni (ledipasvir and sofosbuvir) is a once-daily NS5A inhibitor and nucleotide analog polymerase inhibitor fixed-dose combination for...AkynzeoAkynzeo (netupitant and palonosetron) is an oral NK1 receptor antagonist and 5-HT3 receptor antagonist fixed-dose combination indicated for...
More...




Drugs in Development
(Not yet approved)



palbociclibPalbociclib is a cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 (CDK4/6) inhibitor in development for the combination treatment of ER+, HER2- metastatic...blinatumomabBlinatumomab is an investigational bispecific T cell engager (BiTE®) antibody for adults with Philadelphia-negative (Ph-)...OpdivoOpdivo (nivolumab) is an investigational PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor in development for the treatment of advanced melanoma.
More...




Posted today in MedicalMore Kids Using ERs for Medical Care, Researchers SayMore children are going to the emergency room for health care, a new California study reveals.
Children's visits to the emergency room in California hospitals increased 11 percent between 2005 and 2010. At the start of the study, 2.5 million children were seen in the ER. By 2010, 2.8 million children visited the ER each year, according to the study...Posted today in MedicalNearly 1 in 20 Cancer Patients Die Within Month of Surgery: StudyIn a study of more than 1 million cancer patients who had surgery, Harvard researchers found that almost 5 percent died within one month of their operation.
That's a higher death rate than seen in previous, smaller studies, the researchers noted. The greatest risk of dying was among patients who were single, uninsured, minority, male, older, less educated,...

Featured Topic Centers

Bipolar Disorder: Learn about treatment options
Multiple Sclerosis Assessment
Personal Stories:Treating Osteoarthritis Knee Pain
Treatments for Severe Allergies
Asthma Treatment Center
Atrial Fibrillation Information
Treating Advanced Rheumatoid Arthritis
High Cholesterol Center
Treatment for Hepatitis C
Epileptic Seizure Symptoms and Treatments
Managing Type 2 Diabetes


Posted yesterday in New Drug ApplicationsPfizer Announces FDA Acceptance Of Palbociclib New Drug Application With Priority ReviewMonday, October 13, 2014 - Pfizer Inc. today announced the New Drug Application (NDA) for palbociclib has been accepted for filing and granted Priority Review by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This NDA requests FDA approval of palbociclib, in combination with letrozole, as a first-line treatment for postmenopausal women with estrogen...Posted today in MedicalCould Vitamin D Make Childbirth Less Painful?Low vitamin D levels could make childbirth more painful, according to a new study.
Vitamin D deficiency is common during pregnancy, especially among high-risk women, including vegetarians, those with little sun exposure, and members of ethnic minorities, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists says.
The new study included 93 pregnant...Posted today in MedicalEmbryonic Stem Cell Therapy Shows Long-Term Effectiveness, SafetyA new study is the first to show the long-term safety of embryonic stem cell transplants to treat human disease.
The research involved 18 people who received the transplants to treat forms of macular degeneration, a leading cause of vision loss.
The transplants, which restored some sight in more than half of the patients, appeared safe up to three...Posted today in MedicalUrinary Prosthetic Device for Women ApprovedA device to help women with a condition called impaired detrusor contractility (IDC), in which they can't contract bladder muscles needed to excrete urine, has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
IDC can be caused by a neurologic problem, stroke or spinal cord injury, the FDA explained in a news release.
The InFlow Intraurethral...Posted today in MedicalRisks From Epidural, Spinal Anesthesia Very Low, Study SaysThe risks of using epidural and spinal anesthesia during childbirth are extremely low, according to a new study.
Researchers analyzed data from more than 80,000 women who received epidural or spinal anesthesia during childbirth and found that the overall rate of complications was just under 3 percent.
The most common complications involved medications,...Posted today in MedicalHealth Tip: Installing a Child's Car Seat-- Proper installation of a rear-facing car seat, recommended for all infants and children up to age 2, offers protection for your child in the event of a car crash.
The American Academy of Pediatrics suggests these guidelines:

The harness straps should be in the slots that are at or below the height of your child's shoulders. Straps should fit snugly...Posted today in MedicalCDC Monitoring 76 Hospital Workers in Dallas for Ebola ExposurePublic health officials are actively monitoring 76 Dallas hospital workers who may have been exposed to Ebola while treating Thomas Eric Duncan, the first patient diagnosed with the deadly virus in the United States.
Officials identified the workers after one of Duncan's nurses, Nina Pham, tested positive for Ebola, opening up the possibility that...Posted today in MedicalParenthood May Push Cancer Patients to Seek More TreatmentBeing a parent makes cancer patients more likely to seek life-extending treatments, a new study says.
The study included 42 parents with advanced cancer. The average age of the patients was 44. The average age of their children was 12.
The patients were asked how being a parent affects their treatment decisions. Nearly two-thirds said being a parent...Read more news...


Recently added consumer and prescribing information: Vitekta, Harvoni, Trulicity, Movantik, Contrave, Keytruda, Kabiven, Triumeq, Arnuity Ellipta, Cerdelga
Posted in BlogDrugs.com Adds Mayo Clinic Disease Reference
Drugs.com is pleased to announce it has licensed select content from Mayo Clinic to provide more timely and trustworthy medical condition and disease information. The articles include detailed information about medical diseases such as allergies, back pain, depression, erectile dysfunction, and type 2 diabetes. Each article includes informative sections which may include an overview, symptoms, when […]


Posted in BlogFox News Features Drugs.com Medication Guide app
Thanks to Fox News for showcasing the Drugs.com Medication Guide app today. Very much appreciated. Available in both the Apple App store and the Google Play store, this is a great app for ultra-quick research and/or keeping track of multiple meds. Check out the video at the link below… http://www.foxnews.com/health/2014/07/13/drugscom-app-provides-medical-information-on-go/ And check out the apps here… http://www.drugs.com/apps/


Posted in BlogHeartbleed Update
Drugs.com utilizes the Akamai content delivery network to serve our website to end users. Akamai patched the announced Heartbleed vulnerability prior to its public announcement. Akamai, like all users of OpenSSL, could have exposed passwords or session cookies transiting our network from August 2012 through 4 April 2014. Their custom memory allocator protected against nearly […]

See more blog posts or follow us on twitter.






Sign In or Register


Recommended Content



 




FDA Consumer Updates



Fighting Allergy Season with Medications
Medications for High Blood Pressure
Irritable Bowel Syndrome Treatments Aren't One-Size-Fits-All
Fighting Diabetes' Deadly Impact on Minorities

More FDA updates...






Updates by Email


Email me:



FDA Medwatch Alerts 


News Roundup

Daily
Weekly
Monthly


Email











Support
About Drugs.com
Your Privacy




Support Center
Advertise With Us
Frequently Asked Questions
Ask a Question
Content Submissions
About Drugs.com
Contact Us
Sitemap


Follow:
Google+
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
RSS



Drugs.com provides accurate and independent information on more than 24,000 prescription drugs, over-the-counter medicines and natural products. This material is provided for educational purposes only and is not intended for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
Data sources include Micromedex® (updated Sep 26th, 2014), Cerner Multum™ (updated Sep 23rd, 2014), Wolters Kluwer™ (updated Sep 8th, 2014) and  others. To view content sources and attributions, refer to our editorial policy.
Copyright © 2000-2014 Drugs.com. All rights reserved.







We comply with the HONcode standard for trustworthy health information.Verify here
Terms of Use · Privacy Policy







+1
Like
Tweet
Email

Hide




 (web1)






