Ebola- one of the world’s most virulent diseases - Simplify360Ebola- one of the world’s most virulent diseases - Simplify360






347-468-7251
Blog 
Contact Us 
Request Demo

About Simplify360












Home
Product Updates
CustServ
Resources
Research

  
















 
 




















Ebola- one of the world’s most virulent diseases














Sep 15, 14
	By Rajashree
Social Media Pulse



Don't be shellfish...The Ebola virus outbreak was first recorded in the year 1976 in Yambukta, Congo which is situated near Ebola River. The virus is said to be so deadly that it has the potential to be used in a bio-warfare.
2014 Ebola outbreak has been the largest in the history of West Africa. Hundreds of people have lost their lives due to Ebola. It is said that the disease can spread through direct contact by blood or exchange of body fluids or by objects which have been contaminated with the virus.
The sad news is that currently there are no vaccines available for clinical use. WHO has tagged Ebola to be ‘one of the world’s most virulent diseases’ and 90% of humans who contacted the disease have died.
Our condolences to all the families whose dear ones are struggling with the disease or have lost their lives!
We tried to analyze the scenario and find out how people are talking about Ebola on social media and here is what we found.

 

Share on Facebook


Share on Twitter

Tags: africa, ebola, social media, social media analysis, virus, WHO


Related posts:


How social media monitoring is making the world a better place.

The World Of Big Data

India at Number 7 in the Top Countries to create buzz on FIFA World Cup 2014

Word-of-mouth to Viral Marketing



About Rajashree

Rajashree Das is the Community Manager at Simplify360.
View all posts by →


















Who wants an Awesome Weekly Newsletter ?







Recent Posts 

Top tweets on Indian Super League


Simplify360 launches the advanced version of Social Media Monitoring – search within search


Force 2.0: #TheForceSimplified


How social media monitoring can keep you out of trouble?


Modi Created History at Madison #ModiAtMadison





Follow Simplify360's board Social Media Humor on Pinterest.



Categories 
Events

Featured

FIFA World Cup 2014

Indian Election 2014

Indian Premier League

Industry Research

News

Product Updates

Social Customer Service

Social Media Analytics

Social Media Marketing

Social media Monitoring

Social Media Pulse




 






Simplify360 is a Social Business Intelligence Platform which enables businesses to communicate with their customers on Social Media.
Learn more about our products and services.



Social Media Monitoring





Social Media Marketing





Social Media Analytics





Social Customer Service













© Simplify360 2013   TOS   Privacy policy


Follow Us :

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 











You might be interested in this:How To Use Hashtags For Successful Twitter MarketingFor the last one month, Twitter has been abuzz with quizzes organised by a particular soft drink brand using hashtags....Close








