Ebola : Medical practitioners accuse FG of hoarding PPEEbola : Medical practitioners accuse FG of hoarding PPE


















 

NairaPark

 

 
Send SMS 



				41,855 Members » Join Us » Sign In 

 

















 

 

 



 










 
 




Home
 
Directory
 
Classifieds
 
Jobs
 
News
 
Blogs
 
Forum





Soldier murders colleague at government houseGunmen kidnap TASUED deputy vice-chancellorEmulate Aregbesola’s education policy, Akande tells FGIYC wants death of Alam’s son probedPDP plot to stop INEC from deploying troops fails2015 budget’ll be ready before year end – SenateWe can’t replace Wenger – Arsenal bossUPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suitArsenal scout EmenikeGangsters behead youth, shoot another dead in Lagos 



 





 


 Nigerian News » Punch Newspaper 



« Prev 

Next » 

 


 

 


 



 

 

Recent

 

 

 

Today 
 

 

 

Yesterday 
 

 

 




Select...
Newspapers
Punch Newspaper
Sun Newspaper
Daily Times Newspaper
PointBlank Newspaper
Daily Trust Newspaper
Guardian Newspaper
Daily Independent Newspaper
PM Newspaper
Daily Post Newspaper
Leadership Newspaper
The Nation Newspaper
National Mirror Newspaper
Nigerian Tribune Newspaper
This Day Newspaper
Vanguard Newspaper
Sahara Reporters Newspaper
The Will Newspaper
Osun Defender Newspaper
Complete Sports Newspaper
Premium Times Newspaper
Peoples Daily Newspaper
Business Day
Business News
Nigerian Observer






Sort
Ascending
Descending


















 



 



															Ebola : Medical practitioners accuse FG of hoarding PPE														

 

														Posted 1 month, 3 wks ago | August 25, 2014 (6:07 am)													
 


Drop a Comment


Follow @nairapark



 



Tweet








 


 
Health care providers in the private sector under the aegis of the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria and the Guild of Medical Directors of Nigeria, have raised the alarm that the Federal Government was not carrying them along in the current war against the Ebola Virus Disease.

The two bodies, being controlled by private medical practitioners, stated this when they held a meeting with the Health Minister, Prof. Onyebuchi Chukwu, and other top officials of the ministry in Abuja on Friday behind closed doors.

The AGPMPN was led to the parley by its President, Dr Frank Odafe, while the GMDN team was led by its President, Dr. Tony Phillips.

They noted that their members had been at very high risks since the first case of the deadly disease occurred at the First Consultants Hospital owned by a member of their association.

Odafe lamented that government had not fully embraced the private health care practitioners in the country particularly when 60 percent of the populace are being treated by their hospitals.

He said, “We are currently at the battle front in the Ebola emergency now but we are not fully equipped with the armoury of war in all our endeavour. When the first set of the Personal protective equipment arrived, I made a call round the country, even in Lagos and none of our members have a single one.

“You know most of these cases, some of them (patients) especially the primary and secondary contacts are shy to go to public hospitals, the private hospitals is the first port of call. Patients believe that in private hospitals, they get the compassionate care, a listening ear and their privacy would be maintained.
 



Read more: Punch Newspaper (http://www.punchng.com/news/ebola-private-medical-practitioners-accuse-fg-of-hoarding-ppe/) 

 

 
 
 
 


 



      Breaking News...
   
 
 
 

Osoba Faction of APC Petitions DSS over Threat to Lives 
Ondo Stakeholders Commend Mimiko’s Planned Defection to PDP 
Tribunal Grants APC, PDP Request to Inspect Election Materials 
PDP Not for Sale, Says Gulak 
Adamawa Poll: PDP Postpones Screening of Aspirants to Saturday 
Intense Lobby for Deputy Gov’s Position Begins in Enugu 












 




Search By
News Title
News Content










Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus





													Become a fan on 
												




													 and 
												

Follow @nairapark


													 us on Twitter
												





« Prev 

Next » 

 



 




 



      Most Popular
   
 
 
 


UPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suit

 

         The Unity Party of Nigeria has defended the indefinite suspension slammed on its Chairman and Founder of the Oodua Peoples Congress, Dr.  Frederick Fasehun, saying he was running the party as his...... read more »


 

      Most Commented
   
 
 
 


Waiver: Atiku may face fresh screening

 

         There were indications in Abuja on Sunday that former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar might face fresh screening, in his party, in his bid to realise his presidential ambition.  . . . ...... read more »


 

      Trending on NairaPark...
   
 
 
 

#1.Soldier murders colleague at government house
#2.Gunmen kidnap TASUED deputy vice-chancellor
#3.Emulate Aregbesola’s education policy, Akande tells FG
#4.IYC wants death of Alam’s son probed
#5.PDP plot to stop INEC from deploying troops fails
#6.2015 budget’ll be ready before year end – Senate
#7.We can’t replace Wenger – Arsenal boss
#8.UPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suit
#9.Arsenal scout Emenike
#10.Gangsters behead youth, shoot another dead in Lagos

 











 
 

 


 

 












Favorite Tweets by @nairapark











Bulk Messaging






Sender ID:






Receiver(s):




Type your message here:








            1000 Characters Left
         






 










Quality Website for your Business


                  Own an attractive Website that comes with Free Web Hosting, Domain Reg. and unlimited Email Accounts.
               






 









Quality Website for your Business


                  Own an attractive Website that comes with Free Web Hosting, Domain Reg. and unlimited Email Accounts.
               










 

 Latest on NairaPark Forum
         
 

 


 
 

sharon7 posted: Jonathan to Meet With Governors over SWF

 

               It is only money received that we hear daily. Can we also be shown visible massive infrastructure actualised with those revenues? Infrastructural facilities in Delta State is on the verge of transformation as the state yesterday said it recorded a major breakthrough in the capital market as N50 billion, which was the first tranche of its proposed N100 billion infrastructure bonds was fully...            
 







 

 

Join the Conversation »








 


 


 






 


Free Subscription:



 



  


0 Member and 54 Guests online


NairaPark © 2010 - 2014 - All rights reserved. Send SMS | Advertise | Mobile | Terms | Privacy | Credit 





 





