WHO warns Ebola outbreak could virtually last forever if not shortly contained | The Extinction Protocol WHO warns Ebola outbreak could virtually last forever if not shortly contained | The Extinction Protocol 






The Extinction Protocol 


Geologic and Earthchange News events





Skip to content
HomeBooks of ScienceLoungeContactThe Extinction Protocol Radio







← As Ebola deaths rise in Monrovia, dark omens and religious prophecies abound that disease heralds the ‘End of the World’
Ebola epidemic far worse than being reported: running out of space in cemeteries to bury bodies →


WHO warns Ebola outbreak could virtually last forever if not shortly contained

Posted on September 23, 2014 by The Extinction Protocol  


September 2014 – AFRICA - If the world doesn’t get the Ebola outbreak in West Africa under control quickly, the disease could become a permanent fixture in the region, spreading as routinely as malaria or the flu, the World Health Organization warns today in a new report. Although some experts dispute that dire scenario, many agree that the virus could circulate for years if it’s not stopped soon. The notion that Ebola could become endemic in West Africa — spreading routinely, rather than in sporadic outbreaks — is “a prospect that has never before been contemplated,” according to the report, published online in the New England Journal of Medicine. There could be 20,000 cases by Nov. 2, with thousands of new cases per week, the report said. About 70% of patients are dying from the illness. “We are concerned that without a massive increase in the response, way beyond what is being planned in scale and urgency … it will prove impossible to bring the epidemic under control,” wrote disease researchers Jeremy Farrar, of the Wellcome Trust, and Peter Piot, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, in an accompanying editorial. The Ebola virus has caused more than 20 outbreaks in the past four decades, mostly in remote villages in Central Africa. Although some outbreaks were severe, public health officials were always able to put a stop to them — even without effective treatments or vaccines — by quickly and methodically diagnosing patients, making a list of everyone those patients might have exposed and then monitoring those contacts.
The current outbreak appears to have begun the same way in the West African country of Guinea, with the first cases in December. The virus spread for three months, however, before public officials realized they were dealing with an Ebola outbreak. In contrast, doctors in the Democratic Republic of Congo took just days to confirm an Ebola outbreak after seeing the first cases. In West Africa, Ebola has now infected at least 5,854 people — killing 2,803 — in Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Nigeria and Senegal, according to the WHO, which notes that the total number of cases likely is much higher, because many victims haven’t yet been counted. Farrar and Piot note that the WHO didn’t declare a public health emergency until August, after the epidemic had been recognized for five months and had killed 1,000 people. Last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Beth Bell warned that the West African outbreak could last for years if the world doesn’t halt its spread. –USA Today


About these ads




ShareEmailShare on Tumblr

Related
 

												This entry was posted in Black Swan Event, Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Disease outbreak, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Ecology overturn, Environmental Threat, Extinction Threat, High-risk potential hazard zone, Human behavioral change after disaster, Infrastructure collapse, New virus reported, Pestilence Watch, Potential Earthchange hotspot, Prophecies referenced, Quarantine, Time - Event Acceleration. Bookmark the permalink.											


← As Ebola deaths rise in Monrovia, dark omens and religious prophecies abound that disease heralds the ‘End of the World’
Ebola epidemic far worse than being reported: running out of space in cemeteries to bury bodies →


2 Responses to WHO warns Ebola outbreak could virtually last forever if not shortly contained




 Bone Idle says: 

				September 23, 2014 at 10:06 am 
W.H.O. says that disease could last forever in that region. It most likely has been there forever.
It will eventually die out when there are no more victims to infect.
LikeLike


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 12:08 am 
Buried corpses means it’s now in the natural ecology, and will be so forever. We’ll continue to have sporadic outbreaks…going forward. The virus will never disappear from these regions and could likely find new natural reservoir hosts. Remember, bacteria dies – however, a virus is not alive.
reference this article: http://www.mnn.com/earth-matters/climate-weather/stories/melting-ice-could-release-old-viruses
LikeLike


Reply 






All comments are moderated. We reserve the right not to post any comment deemed defamatory, inappropriate, or spam. Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list


Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola


Health officials warn new Ebola cases could soon reach 10,000 a week


Ebola death toll rises to 4,447 – mortality rate for virus peaks at 70%


7.3 magnitude earthquake strikes off coast of El Salvador killing 1


Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
* Publisher Coupon Discount

1 Submit story

11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Animal Extinction

Apostasy

Avalanche

Black hole or supernova

Black Swan Event

Blizzard

Breaking News Event

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Cosmic and Gamma Ray emissions

Cracks

Crowd Control technology

Cryometeor

Cyber Warfare

Cyclone or Hurricane

Dark Ages

Deluge from torrential rains

Derecho storm

Derecho storm system

Desertification

Disappearing Lakes

Disease outbreak

Dormant fault activation

Dream Portal TEP

Drought

Drumbeat of War

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earth's core dynamics

Earthquake Omens?

Eclipse

Ecology overturn

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Ecoystem crisis due to population boom

Editor's note to readers – policy

Electric power disruption & grid failure

Electronic Surveillence

Emerging disease threat

Environmental Threat

Erratic Jet Stream

Ethnic or religious strife

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extinction Threat

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Financial System Collapse

Fireballs

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Flooding

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Fracking quake suspected

Frost Quakes

Fungus outbreak

Future coding

Futuristic tech trends

Gale-force winds and gusts

Geomagnetic Storm Alert

Geyser eruption

Glacial fracture

Global Debt Bomb

Hailstorm

Harmonic tremor swarm

Hazardous chemical exposure

Health guideliness issued

Heatwave

High-risk potential hazard zone

Hum noise

Human behavioral change after disaster

Ice Storm

Infrastructure collapse

Invasive species threat

Land fissures

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lava flow

Lightning storm

Limnic overturn

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Lurid acts of violence increasing

Magma Plume activity

Magnetic pole migration

Marine animal strandings

Mass animal deaths

Meteor or Asteroid

Monthly lead post

Mud volcano

Mystery Boom & Shaking

Natural gas explosion

New land rises from sea

New virus reported

New volcanic activity

New weapons of war

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Nuclear plant crisis

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary discovery

Planetary Tremor Event

Polar Vortex

Poleshift risks

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Quarantine

Rare snowfall

Reality Check

Record Cold temperatures

Record high temperatures

Record rainfall

Record snowfall

Red Tide

Resource war

Rising tension between nations

Rumors of War

Scientific blunders

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

sinkholes

Social unrest

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Strange unexplained noises

Subglacial flood event

Submarine volcanic eruption

Submarine Volcano

Supermoon

Tectonic plate movement

Time – Event Acceleration

Tornado Outbreak

Unknown phenomena in the sky

Unprecedented Flooding

Unseasonable Weather Event

Unsolved Mystery

Unusual hail storm

Unusual solar behavior

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Ash

Volcanic Eruption

Volcanic gas emissions

Volcano unrest

Volcano Watch

Water Crisis – Conflict

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,363 other followers







 



EP: Live Twitter Feed

				Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list  wp.me/p1eYXc-amj -The Extinction Protocol...				4 hours ago


				M5.1  - 124km NNE of Vik, Iceland 2014-10-15 11:16:33 UTC (via @usgs)  earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/ev… -The Extinction Protocol...				8 hours ago


				Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola  wp.me/p1eYXc-amb -The Extinction Protocol...				9 hours ago

Books by the Author

Books by the Author


News website

Utopia the collapse


Youtube Channel

The Extinction Protocol Radio






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?





 








 




 




					The Extinction Protocol 				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Blog at WordPress.com.
			
















Follow

Follow “The Extinction Protocol ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 11,363 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com







Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







 



