Banning bushmeat to stem Ebola outbreaks is unworkable, says CIFOR - No Animal PoachingBanning bushmeat to stem Ebola outbreaks is unworkable, says CIFOR - No Animal Poaching







Welcome to No Animal Poaching















No Animal Poaching
HomeAboutWhat is Poaching?Who We ArePurpose StatementMission StatementGoalsPrivacy PolicyContact & DonationsNewsAnimal Poaching News, 2014Animal Poaching News>"Sticky" Notes Part 1"Sticky" Notes Part 2Where>Animal Poaching: AfricaAnimal Poaching: AsiaAnimal Poaching: AustralasiaAnimal Poaching: EuropeAnimal Poaching: Middle EastAnimal Poaching: The Americas>Animal Poaching: Canada and the United StatesAnimal Poaching: Latin America (including the Caribbean)Topics>Animal Poaching Themes: Part 1 (all news themes)Animal Poaching Themes: Part 2 (subdivision of Part 1 themes)Animal Poaching: African National Parks & Game ReservesAnimal Poaching: Asian National Parks & Game ReservesAnimal Poaching: Parks, Reserves, PeopleAnimal Poaching: Private and Government OrganizationsAnimal Poaching: Laws, Treaties, Agreements, & DefinitionsSpecies>Animal Poaching News: Species Listed AlphabeticallyAnimal Poaching News: Overview and AnalysisAnimal Poaching News: UnclassifiedAnimal Poaching News: The Bovid FamilyForumFuture Blogging PageTake ActionResourcesAggregated LinksAllied Organizations & Government AgenciesConferences, Events, And MeetingsNo Animal Poaching: Reading ListSitemap & Site Search








 














Banning bushmeat to stem Ebola outbreaks is unworkable, says CIFOR

9/3/2014



	0 Comments



 

Source:  Businessdayonline.comTens of millions of Africans rely on  bushmeat and wild fish for up to 80 percent of their protein, and recent  calls to end the trade in the food because of links to Ebola virus  outbreaks could never be enforced, said Robert Nasi, Deputy Director  General of the Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR).  He said that people living in Africa’s  Congo Basin annually eat about 5 million tons of bushmeat — from  caterpillars to elephants. “That’s about the equivalent of the  cattle production of Brazil or the European Union. Bushmeat is the  cheapest protein available beside caterpillars.” Nasi — who has been studying the  bushmeat trade for 10 years — said producing the same amount of meat by  cattle ranching would require converting up to 25 million hectares of  forest into farmland — roughly the size of Great Britain. Bushmeat  hunting is largely illegal in many countries in Africa, but weak law  enforcement undermines any efforts to actually stop the trade. In  Cameroon alone, there are believed to be 460,000 hunters. Nasi said that  with growing populations and improved roads and other transport links,  the world should expect to see more outbreaks of Ebola and other  diseases. An edited transcript of the video interview with Dr. Nasi continues below. A: One of the Ebola vectors is bats.  It’s very likely that non-human primates– gorillas, chimpanzees — are  infected via bat droppings or fruits that are half-eaten by the bats and  then the chimpanzees and gorillas eat. Ebola kills these animals. Ebola kills  more gorillas and chimpanzees than it probably kills people every year.  And what is happening is that people find dead animals in the forest,  and they take this animal and they use them for bushmeat or, in the case  of a gorilla sometimes, for cultural or magical practices. And by  butchering an animal that has been infected, because Ebola is  transmitted by contact, they get infected themselves. But there is also  possibly a link with domestic animals, because in fact it seems that  pigs and dogs are also infected with Ebola without showing signs of the  sickness. In thecurrent case, the one we have now in Guinea, Liberia,  Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal, the patient zero, the first infected  patient, is a 2-year-old kid. It’s very unlikely that this 2-year-old  kid was out in the forest, butchering bushmeat. So it’s more likely that  it’s either by contamination of bat droppings, or rodent droppings, or  contaminated fruit or something else. A: If we set aside invertebrates where  we talk about caterpillars, it is anything from a 200-gram squirrel to  an elephant. It’s animals killed for food. This is different from what  you see in the news about the wildlife trade. It’s not about rhinoceros  horns, it’s not about ivory. It’s about people killing animals to eat  them. It’s hunting for food, which is an activity that has been carried  out by humankind for a long, long, long time. A: We are talking potentially tens of  millions of people. If you go to a village, definitely a rural village  in Cameroon or Gabon or Democratic Republic of Congo, people there —  because they have no real alternative — all eat bushmeat. If you go to  town, it is sort of a different custom. In many places, bushmeat is the  cheapest protein available beside caterpillars. In rural parts of the Congo Basin or in  Latin America, 30 to 80 percent of theprotein intake of the population  comes from these wild animals or fish. So you cannot tell the people to  stop eating bushmeat unless you provide them an alternative. An  alternative would be domestic livestock — cattle. The problem is that if  you take the amount of bushmeat that is eaten in the Congo Basin, which  is about 5 million tons per year — that is the equivalent of the cattle  production of Brazil or the European Union. This means that if you want  to produce this amount of cattle in the region, in the Congo Basin, you  have to deforest 20 [million\ to 25 million hectares of forest.A: From all the data we have, even for  the most resilient species, the ones that reproduce very fast — rodents,  rats, mice — it seems that in many places the populations are  decreasing. So there is an overall population decrease because of  over-harvesting in many places. The crisis for me is not only the fact  that some very important animals or very precious animals are killed.  The fact that even the small ones, the rodents, they are killed and they  are not replaced enough. So we are going to have a serious problem in  terms of food security. We have data that shows there is a very high  correlation between the availability of bushmeat in people’s diets and  the stunting of children in the Congo Basin. In the forest area where  people have enough bushmeat, the occurrence of stunting is almost nil,  10 percent. In the forest margin where people are more numerous and they  have hunted most of the bushmeat to extinction, the occurrence of  stunting is 60 percent. And it doesn’t change with the domestic  livestock. This meat, this game, is very nutrient-rich. So it’s a very  important but small contribution to the diet. A: Ninety-five percent of the bushmeat  is harvested illegally … because the laws are properly designed. So as a  result, you cannot say that there is a ban on bushmeat everywhere. But  everywhere the whole sector is criminalised. Still, if you look at the data we have  from Cameroon, we estimate something like there are 460,000 hunters in  Cameroon. So that means that you have 460,000 criminals. You cannot work  like that. You have to adapt policies and decisions so that they can  implement them. Some people are criminals — the ones that are killing  elephants in the protected area. And other people who are killing  rodents and eating their harvest are a different case. Having a ban on  hunting is not going to work. There is no alternative. So, unless we  provide a good alternative to the people for protein, they will continue  over-hunting or over-fishing. A: We should probably expect an  increasing number of outbreaks of this type of disease. Today it’s  Ebola, but tomorrow it could be Marburg virus, which is the second  member of the family of the Filovirus, similar to Ebola, or Lassa virus.  We should expect more outbreaks because of larger populations, easier  transportation, and also because we are better at detection. Ebola did  not appear in 1975, which is when the first people were found dead from  it in the Congo and Sudan. It has been with us for a long, long time.  Simply people were dying before and nobody knew that it was Ebola. I don’t think that there is a big risk  of a pandemic. The problem in this last case is that people, the doctor  in Guinea, did not diagnose early enough that these were Ebola cases.  And because there is a constant trade between Guinea, Sierra Leone and  Liberia, because these are the same ethnic groups, then the thing moved  very fast. But if you take the Democratic Republic of Congo, there is an  outbreak of Ebola in that country now. First, it’s in a remote area. To  go there you have to walk for 600 kilometers, and there’s no road, they  are not going to go out. So I don’t see a big risk for Ebola virus as  it is now to become a global pandemic. If you tell me tomorrow that the  virus has mutated and becomes transmittable by air then that is a  frightening prospect, but that hasn’t happened so far. A: It is important to understand the  whole chain between the animal killed or dead in the wood to the carcass  or bits sold in the market in town. Because if you want to make an  intervention in the value chain, you need to know who is doing the  transportation, who is the wholesaler, who is the retailer, and then who  is the buyer. Unless you understand that, it’s very  difficult to act on the value chain. Because the whole value chain of  bushmeat is criminalized, nobody is standing up and saying, Well it’s  me, I’m just hunting the meat. So we need to have this research on this  informal sector, which is pretty complicated. To understand how it works  and where you can act on it, sort of. You can act by giving better  information to the hunters so they would be less likely to hunt, or you  can act by deterring the people in town to buy bushmeat, so it becomes  more expensive for them to do that.






	0 Comments


 


 
Leave a Reply.









 


Enter your email address:Delivered by FeedBurner

 RSS Feed
ADMIN. NOTES﻿Due to numerous requests, note that comments for this area are now OPEN.﻿ This page is only for 2014 news. For all prior (2009-2013) posts, see the Animal Poaching News page. Unlike the Animal Poaching News page, this one is not fully indexed (except for "cattle rustling" and only a handful of other categories; see below). Why not? See the Read Me First page.

Categories
All
Africa
Arctic Or Antarctic
Asia
Australasia
Canada
Caribbean
Cattle Rustling
Central America
Europe
Latin America
Mexico
Middle East
Nowhere And Everywhere
Russia
South America
United States


"Your new widget 1"
Powered by RSS Feed Informer


Archives
December 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
 






Create a free website

Powered by 


Start your own free website
A surprisingly easy drag & drop site creator. Learn more.





















