At $50 Million, Bill Gates Just Made His Largest Donation Ever To Fight Ebola - Business InsiderAt $50 Million, Bill Gates Just Made His Largest Donation Ever To Fight Ebola - Business Insider





REV Asia Network





News

Business Insider
SAYS.com

Technology

Stuff



Lifestyle & Entertainment

Juice
Total Film
Clive
Hanger
MINT
8Share










Toggle navigation




Business InsiderMalaysia


Tech
Finance
Entertainment
Politics
Strategy
The Life
Specials 

A Gastronomic Journey
Clock Off @ 6


 


Search for:


Search





 





 






Tech 





At $50 Million, Bill Gates Just Made His Largest Donation Ever To Fight Ebola


Jack Dutton


Tech 



Sep. 12, 2014, 7:16 PM
 




Susan Walsh/AP Photo
Bill Gates and is wife are committing a record $50 million to fight the Ebola outbreak.


The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the charity run by Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and his wife, announced Wednesday that it will be donating $50 million toward fighting the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.
This marks the largest-ever donation to a humanitarian cause from the foundation, according to the Associated Press. The group had previously donated $10 million toward fighting the outbreak in West Africa.
“By fighting Ebola now, we can make sure it doesn’t become an epidemic in [West] Africa,” Gates tweeted on Wednesday.
The record pledge was largely inspired by a request from Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for $600 million to fight the epidemic. The virus has killed more than 2,000 people across Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria and is spreading at an uncontrollable rate.
A statement from the Gates Foundation said: “To date, the Gates Foundation has committed more than $10 million of the $50 million to fight the Ebola outbreak, including $5 million to WHO for emergency operations and R&D assessments and $5 million to the U.S. Fund for UNICEF to support efforts in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea to purchase essential medical supplies, coordinate response activities, and provide at-risk communities with life-saving health information.”
On Thursday, Reuters reported that fellow Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen will annouce that he is donating $9 million to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to help fight the virus.
Both commitments from the tech giants come at a critical time as the World Health Organization and Doctors Without Boarders have said there is a severe shortage of resources to contain the Ebola outbreak.






Share














Tagged In
scienceTech 










Discuss











 




Get Business Insider Emails 








 



Business Insider Malaysia 

Contact Editor
Got a story tip?
Report Issue









Most Commented

The Life Of A Billionaire Can Actually Be Pretty Tough
After Two Weeks With The iPhone 6 Plus, This Is The Thing That’s Most Impressive About The Phone
This Flowchart Could Help You Decide Whether To Buy Or Rent A Home
Meet The Bank Employee Who Asked His CEO For A $10,000 Raise, And CC’d 200,000 Colleagues
Malcolm Gladwell Says Steve Jobs Became Steve Jobs Because Of This Personality Trait



Top 5 News To Know Now 
 



 








Toggle navigation




© 2014 REV Asia



About
Advertise
Contact
Terms of Use
Business Insider International 







×
Business Insider International





 Business Insider US
            



 Business Insider Malaysia
            



 Business Insider Singapore
            



 Business Insider Indonesia
            



 Business Insider Australia
            



 Business Insider India
            





























