U.S. FDA says 'stands ready' to work with companies developing Ebola drugs - Yahoo FinanceU.S. FDA says 'stands ready' to work with companies developing Ebola drugs - Yahoo Finance










   HomeMailNewsSportsFinanceWeatherGamesGroupsAnswersScreenFlickrMobileMoreCelebrityMoviesMusicTVHealthStyleBeautyFoodDIYTechShoppingTravelAutosHomes                        Sign In     Mail      Help    Account Info Help Suggestions      











Follow Yahoo Finance







 on Facebook





 on Twitter





 on Tumblr

















Recent


% |
            $









                                    Quotes you view appear here for quick access.
                                




























Tip : Use comma (,) to separate multiple quotes. Learn more...









Finance Home


My Portfolio


Market Data


Yahoo Originals


Business & Finance


Personal Finance


CNBC


Contributors
















Compare Brokers

























U.S. FDA says 'stands ready' to work with companies developing Ebola drugs







August 2, 2014 2:28 PM


































Content preferences




Done













(Corrects first name of physician in 12th paragraph to Amesh) By Julie Steenhuysen CHICAGO, Aug 1 (Reuters) - The worst Ebola outbreak in history is heaping new pressure on U.S. regulators to speed the development of treatments for the deadly virus, which has killed more than 700 people since February. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Friday said in an emailed statement the agency "stands ready" to work with companies and investigators working with patients "in dire need of treatment." A senior official within FDA told Reuters the agency would consider proposals for providing treatments under special emergency new drug applications, if the benefits of the treatment outweighed the potential safety risks. "We take this very, very seriously," the source said. FDA's statement follow calls by doctors fed up by the lack of progress on Ebola treatments, a market deemed too small to gain much attention by large pharmaceutical companies. Earlier this month, the agency put a hold on a Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp clinical trial of TKM-Ebola, one of the few Ebola treatments advanced enough to be tested in people. The hold prompted a North Carolina physician with family members in West Africa to say enough. "This should be the last Ebola epidemic without a cure," said Dr. Ahmed Tejan-Sie, an internist from Burlington. Tejan-Sie started a petition on Change.org to urge FDA to lift its hold on the drug. It now has 15,000 signatures. Shares of Tekmira rose sharply on Friday on news that the Ebola outbreak in West Africa has intensified, as investors expect the drug trial will be considered again by regulators. "I'm not advocating that they take it out of the lab and start using it in West Africa. What I'm advocating is that the trials be accelerated," said Tejan-Sie, who spent much of his childhood in Ebola-ravaged Sierra Leone. The director of the global charity Wellcome Trust last month took it a step further, arguing in favor of offering experimental treatments to people at high risk of dying from Ebola, saying the normal drug development process takes too long and should not apply in rapidly spreading outbreaks of diseases. Giving experimental drugs to people in an epidemic is not without precedent. "Usually when this happens, there are drugs that are further along in development," said Dr. Amesh Adalja, an infectious disease expert at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. In the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic, for example, BioCryst Pharmaceuticals' experimental antiviral drug peramivir was made available through emergency use authorization. But that drug had been tested in widely in people by that time. "With Ebola drugs, there hasn't been much work with them outside of animal models," Adalja said. "That makes it very hard to safely say we should use this in a compassionate use situation, although there is definitely a case to be made in these large outbreaks."  RISK-BENEFIT PROFILE Tekmira's drug has only been tested in a few dozen healthy people. The FDA stopped its study in July because of safety concerns among people taking the highest doses of the drug who experienced problematic immune responses. The hold means that particular study cannot proceed, but it does not prevent the company from submitting a new study proposal, say in people already infected with Ebola, for whom any safety risks from the treatment would be mitigated by the risk of dying. In that case, "the benefit-risk ratio changes completely," the FDA source said. "Anything that would shift the risk-benefit to a more favorable outcome could potentially allow the authorization of that study." What is not clear is whether Tekmira or any developers of possible Ebola treatments would choose to test their drugs in patients infected with Ebola, particularly in the midst of a raging epidemic in which emotions and expectations run high. Tekmira officials did not return calls or emails on Friday seeking comment. In a July 21 press release, the company said it is "mindful of the need for this important therapeutic in situations such as the ongoing Ebola outbreak in West Africa. "TKM-Ebola is currently an unapproved agent and the regulatory framework to support its use in Africa has not been established at this time," the company added. Dr. Thomas Geisbert of the University of Texas Medical Branch has done animal studies on the Tekmira drug and said there are few companies willing to develop Ebola treatments. There is "little financial incentive," given the small market potential for a drug that treats a rare disease afflicting developing countries, he said. Geisbert said the drug "works great in monkeys in the lab," but that is largely because it is given relatively early in the course of infection. "What if you start giving it to people who are almost dead and they die, but it's not the drug's fault? Then you blame the drug." Geisbert said given the widespread mistrust of doctors in West Africa, which has driven dozens of victims to evade treatment, such an event could jeopardize the drug's prospects. "It's a very delicate situation," he said. (Reporting by Julie Steenhuysen; Editing by Michele Gershberg, Martin Howell, Lisa Shumaker and Dan Grebler)Health Care IndustryHealthFDAEbola outbreak






Rates






Click to view comments


View Comments (2)





Share this

 



















   Top Stories        Live coverage: Stocks plunge, bonds rally as global growth fears mount      Putin's next move could make Eastern Europe explode      Banks face 'continued misery' for years to come: Analyst      U.S. economy growing at modest to moderate pace: Fed's Beige Book      Sorry cord cutters, Netflix is just another channel       


Related Quotes
       






CAF23.21-1.57%








TKM.TO26.48-0.75%








TKMR23.4701-0.55%










                           Morgan Stanley China A Share F …


23.21-0.37(-1.57%)



NYSE3:52 PM EDT









UPDATE: Time To Take (some) Profits In China ADR’s
Yahoo Finance Blogs
                                1 mth 10 days ago
                                


RPT-U.S. FDA says 'stands ready' to work with companies developing Ebola drugs
Reuters
                                2 mths ago
                                


 More






                           Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corpor …


26.48-0.20(-0.75%)



Toronto3:41 PM EDT













                           Tekmira Pharmaceuticals Corp


23.4701-0.1299(-0.55%)



NasdaqCM3:56 PM EDT


































New Site Exposes Anyone's Past Online!

Sponsored
Instant Checkmate















Related Videos


























Up Next:













Must Reads











Yahoo Finance
Sorry cord cutters, Netflix is just another channel






Yahoo Finance
Restaurant earnings: The pressure's on Chipotle






Yahoo Finance
New case of Ebola in U.S.: Is it the latest market headwind?








Yahoo Finance
Two global energy giants likely to outperform index funds







Yahoo Finance
7 money mistakes you shouldn't make in your 50s







Yahoo Finance
Voters are punishing Obama for this one economic failure







Yahoo Finance
Here’s how to save America $250 billion: Rep. Tim Ryan







Yahoo Finance
Homebuilders up to their same old tricks: Schiff














More Top News »






   More Market News          Play   Stocks Retreat on Global Growth Scare 04:27        Play   Will tech stocks come roaring back? 05:59             Play   Closing Bell Exchange: Capitulation selling? 03:24             Play   Gold regains some luster, but it won't last: A … 03:29       




Copyright © 2014 Reuters Limited. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Reuters content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters shall not be liable for any errors or delays in the content, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon.


Data Disclaimer





Help / Suggestions


Privacy


About Our Ads


Terms



























