BBC News - Ebola: The virus posing a deadly threat to millionsBBC News - Ebola: The virus posing a deadly threat to millions












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Health







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


























16 September 2014
Last updated at 09:29


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola: The virus posing a deadly threat to millions
The World Health Organization warns greater global efforts are needed to combat the Ebola virus, which is spreading ever faster in West Africa despite efforts to contain it. On Tuesday President Obama is expected to give details of greater US support for the countries most affected.  More than 4,000 cases have been confirmed so far - but experts say the real number is much higher. 
Continue reading the main story



Continue reading the main story
We are experimenting with a new type of interactive video. This format is currently only available on a specific set of desktop and tablet devices and unavailable in Internet Explorer. As the prototype develops we will increase the range of browsers and devices supported. The video was presented by Branwen Jeffreys and production was by John Lawrence and Charlie Jones.
This content is not available on mobile phone and some browsers.
 We would like to know your views on this new format. Did you find it easy to use? Was the interactive content engaging? Let us know what you think.




More on This Story


Related Stories



Why Ebola is so dangerous

08 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Ebola: How bad can it get?

06 SEPTEMBER 2014,                                                
                                                HEALTH



Ebola crisis: Five ways to avoid the deadly virus

27 AUGUST 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA



Ebola: Mapping the outbreak

10 OCTOBER 2014,                                                
                                                AFRICA












Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Health stories
RSS




Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse

US health officials are seeking 132 people who took the same flight as a Texas nurse on the day before she came down with symptoms of Ebola.



Dying patients 'lack home support'




Call for Trafalgar Square smoking ban











Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












