Ebola outbreak: 'It's even worse than I'd feared' - CNN.comEbola outbreak: 'It's even worse than I'd feared' - CNN.com




















SET EDITION:  U.S.
INTERNATIONAL
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNN
CNNi
CNN en Español
HLN





Sign up
Log in

















Home
TV & Video
U.S.
World
Politics
Justice
Entertainment
Tech
Health
Living
Travel
Opinion
iReport
Money
Sports


















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











Ebola outbreak: 'It's even worse than I'd feared'



By Jacque Wilson, CNN
updated 5:13 PM EDT, Wed August 27, 2014
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


More than 2,600 people have been infected by Ebola in West Africa
The Ebola outbreak has killed nearly 1,500
CDC staff member flown home after coming in close proximity with infected worker
CDC staffer is healthy and showing no signs of Ebola virus











(CNN) -- "It's even worse than I'd feared," Dr. Tom Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Wednesday of the Ebola outbreak rampaging through West Africa. "Every day this outbreak goes on, it increases the risk for another export to another country.
"The sooner the world comes together to help Liberia and West Africans, the safer we will all be."
Frieden spoke to CNN's Nima Elbagir in Monrovia, Liberia, where fear and anger over the largest Ebola outbreak on record has grown as health officials put up quarantines around some of the capital city's poorest areas.
More than 2,600 people have been infected by Ebola in Liberia, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Nigeria since the outbreak began in December, according to the World Health Organization. Nearly 1,500 have died.




CDC: Worker possibly exposed to Ebola





Ebola doctors volunteer despite risk

Health care workers at risk




120 healthcare workers died from Ebola

A CDC staff member was recently flown home to the United States on a private charter after spending time in close proximity with another health care worker who tested positive for Ebola in Sierra Leone.
The CDC worker is reportedly healthy and has shown no symptoms of the deadly virus. He or she is simply rotating back to the United States as previously scheduled, according to the CDC. It is CDC policy that people who have been exposed to Ebola and are traveling long distances do so on a private plane in the three weeks after exposure to lower the risk of spreading the infection.
"We think it's the right thing to do, to bring them home," CDC spokesman Tom Skinner said. "They want to come home. Their tour of duty was up, and we've made it crystal clear that if they go over there and have something like this happen and want to go home, we're going to bring them home."
The staff member will be monitored for 21 days -- the longest known incubation period -- for Ebola symptoms, but he or she currently "poses no Ebola-related risk to friends, family, co-workers, or the public," the CDC said in a statement.
Inside the Ebola outbreak with the CDC
The other health care worker, who tested positive for Ebola, has been flown to Germany to recover, Skinner said.
The World Health Organization said Monday that 120 health care workers have died in the Ebola outbreak, and twice that number have been infected.
Public health experts say several factors are to blame, including a shortage of protective gear and improper use of the gear they do have.
The fact that the disease has killed so many people working to care for infected patients is making it increasingly hard to combat the virus in West Africa, WHO said.
"It depletes one of the most vital assets during the control of any outbreak. WHO estimates that in the three hardest-hit countries, only one to two doctors are available to treat 100,000 people, and these doctors are heavily concentrated in urban areas."
Another outbreak
On Tuesday, the Ministry of Health for the Democratic Republic of Congo notified WHO of another possible Ebola outbreak.
Health officials say a woman in the Central African country became ill with symptoms of Ebola after butchering a bush animal that had been given to her by her husband. She died on August 11. Since then health care workers, relatives and other individuals who came in contact with her body have developed symptoms and died.




Ebola survivor: I am alive because of God





Ebola expert answers your questions

Between July 28 and August 18, a total of 24 suspected cases of an unidentified hemorrhagic fever, including 13 deaths, have been identified, WHO said.
Samples have been sent to laboratories to confirm that these illnesses are being caused by the Ebola virus and to identify the strain. As none of the people involved has been to the four countries affected by the other Ebola epidemic, health officials believe this to be a separate outbreak.
The Democratic Republic of Congo has seen six smaller Ebola outbreaks since the 1970s, according to the CDC.
Your questions about Ebola answered
What happens when you survive Ebola?

CNN's Elizabeth Cohen contributed to this story.















































Part of complete coverage on 
Ebola outbreak


What you need to know

updated 5:39 AM EDT, Fri October 10, 2014




These questions and answers will give you the latest information on the deadly virus and what's being done to stop its spread.



U.S. concern over spread of Ebola

updated 9:29 AM EDT, Wed October 15, 2014




Kisha Bell walks into the Neighborhood Medical Center in Dallas complaining of abdominal pain. But she has a much more pressing concern weighing on her mind. 



Union slams hospital for lack of protocol

updated 3:29 PM EDT, Wed October 15, 2014




The hospital where two health care workers contracted Ebola while caring for a patient didn't have protocols on how to deal with the deadly virus," a nurses' union claims. 



Five ways the CDC got it wrong

updated 12:55 PM EDT, Tue October 14, 2014




Public health experts are asking whether the CDC is partly to blame for problems with Ebola in the U.S. Here are 5 things they say the CDC is getting wrong.



Can pets get or spread Ebola? 

updated 6:37 PM EDT, Tue October 14, 2014




The lack of solid protocol on what to do with Ebola victims' pets and what little is known about the risk has caused one dog to be euthanized and another quarantined. 



Who is Ebola patient Nina Pham?

updated 10:49 PM EDT, Tue October 14, 2014




She tackled one of the toughest jobs any nurse could take -- treating a highly contagious Ebola patient. And somehow along the way, she contracted it herself.



A look at Ebola protective gear

updated 1:58 AM EDT, Tue October 14, 2014




Rosie Tomkins takes a look at the protective suits that are worn by some Ebola medical workers in Africa.



Enormous risk for caregivers

updated 4:57 PM EDT, Sun October 12, 2014




They dedicate their lives to saving others, but as Ebola spreads, health care workers must also focus on themselves. 



How could nurse contract Ebola?

updated 6:21 PM EDT, Tue October 14, 2014




On the surface, the nurse seemed to have taken all the precautions needed to protect herself from Ebola. 



How hospitals handle Ebola patients

updated 8:52 AM EDT, Mon October 13, 2014




First, a Texas hospital came under fire for releasing a sick Liberian man without testing him for Ebola.



9 ways travelers handle Ebola anxiety

updated 2:33 PM EDT, Mon October 13, 2014




With Ebola panic traveling faster than a 787, travelers trapped in metal containers at 30,000 feet are quickly splitting into camps. 



First Ebola death in U.S.

updated 3:19 PM EDT, Wed October 8, 2014




Thomas Eric Duncan left Africa for the United States, by official accounts, a healthy man. Just over two weeks later, he passed away.



Protection from Ebola

updated 8:42 AM EDT, Mon October 13, 2014




From full-body suits to improvised face coverings, here's a look at ways health workers protect themselves in some of the hardest hit areas.



Ebola drugs are in the works

updated 7:58 AM EDT, Wed October 8, 2014




Scientists racing to develop something that will stop the largest Ebola epidemic in history are trying a variety of experimental drugs on patients. 



Who are the American Ebola patients?

updated 12:57 PM EDT, Mon October 6, 2014




Here is a look at the American patients who have been diagnosed with this deadly virus. 



Can you catch Ebola on a plane?

updated 7:50 PM EDT, Tue October 7, 2014




You're settling into your tiny coach seat on your next business trip, and the person next to you starts coughing. 



Ebola outbreak in West Africa

updated 11:35 AM EDT, Sun October 12, 2014




Click through our gallery as we track the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. 







 









  Health Resources from HealthGrades   
The stages of depression treatment			  
7 mistakes people with MS make			  
Have heart disease? 8 facts that may …			  
6 facts about biologics for Crohn's			  
Preventing food allergies			       













       



    



    



     




           



Home | Video | U.S. | World | Politics | Justice | Entertainment | Tech | Health | Living | Travel | Opinion | iReport | Money | Sports
Tools & widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN mobile | My profile | E-mail alerts  | Desktop Alerts | CNN shop | Site map | Contact us 



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN México | CNN Chile | CNN Expansión
العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts | 


© 2014 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | Ad choices | Advertise with us | About us | Work for us | Help
CNN Newsource | License Footage





      







