Ebola: No resumption until all measures are in place —KWARA TEACHERSEbola: No resumption until all measures are in place —KWARA TEACHERS


















 

NairaPark

 

 
Send SMS 



				41,855 Members » Join Us » Sign In 

 

















 

 

 



 










 
 




Home
 
Directory
 
Classifieds
 
Jobs
 
News
 
Blogs
 
Forum





Soldier murders colleague at government houseGunmen kidnap TASUED deputy vice-chancellorEmulate Aregbesola’s education policy, Akande tells FGIYC wants death of Alam’s son probedPDP plot to stop INEC from deploying troops fails2015 budget’ll be ready before year end – SenateWe can’t replace Wenger – Arsenal bossUPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suitArsenal scout EmenikeGangsters behead youth, shoot another dead in Lagos 



 





 


 Nigerian News » Vanguard Newspaper 



« Prev 

Next » 

 


 

 


 



 

 

Recent

 

 

 

Today 
 

 

 

Yesterday 
 

 

 




Select...
Newspapers
Punch Newspaper
Sun Newspaper
Daily Times Newspaper
PointBlank Newspaper
Daily Trust Newspaper
Guardian Newspaper
Daily Independent Newspaper
PM Newspaper
Daily Post Newspaper
Leadership Newspaper
The Nation Newspaper
National Mirror Newspaper
Nigerian Tribune Newspaper
This Day Newspaper
Vanguard Newspaper
Sahara Reporters Newspaper
The Will Newspaper
Osun Defender Newspaper
Complete Sports Newspaper
Premium Times Newspaper
Peoples Daily Newspaper
Business Day
Business News
Nigerian Observer






Sort
Ascending
Descending


















 



 



															Ebola: No resumption until all measures are in place —KWARA TEACHERS														

 

														Posted 3 wks ago | September 24, 2014 (2:49 pm)													
 


Drop a Comment


Follow @nairapark



 



Tweet








 


 
ILORIN—The Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in Kwara state has said that teachers in the state will not resume  until all provisions to prevent Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) are made by government.

This development is however against the directive of the state government that both public and private schools in the state resume Monday 22 September.

State Commissioner for Education, Alhaji Saka Onimago, had asked all schools to provide basic hygiene materials including washing bowls, soap and towels, just as the government directed two teachers from each school in the state to undergo training on Ebola Prevention, as soon as the Federal Ministries of Health and Education provide necessary facilities.

Hovewever, a statement signed by the NUT chairman, secretary and the publicity secretary in the state, Comrades Musa Abubakar, Ola Idris, and W. A. Jogbojogbo, respectively and made available to journalists in Ilorin last Friday said the union had noted the inadequate measures taken by the government so far in schools and was of the opinion that schools could not resume on Monday, September 22, 2014.

The union, which called on all stakeholders in the education sector to be proactive in tackling the Ebola scourge, appealed to government at all levels to use qualified health personnel to train teachers to forestall outbreak of EVD.

The union also said that hand sanitizers and infra-red thermometers should be provided in schools, adding that there was need for proactive measures in schools to safeguard health of teachers and pupils/students.

According to the statement,”Stakeholders should focus more on preventive measures so that there would be no epidemic in our state. Therefore, teachers shall not resume until all these provisions are made in our schools”.
 



Read more: Vanguard Newspaper (http://www.vanguardngr.com/2014/09/ebola-no-resumption-until-all-measures-are-in-place-kwara-teachers/) 

 

 
 
 
 


 



      Breaking News...
   
 
 
 

Osoba Faction of APC Petitions DSS over Threat to Lives 
Ondo Stakeholders Commend Mimiko’s Planned Defection to PDP 
Tribunal Grants APC, PDP Request to Inspect Election Materials 
PDP Not for Sale, Says Gulak 
Adamawa Poll: PDP Postpones Screening of Aspirants to Saturday 
Intense Lobby for Deputy Gov’s Position Begins in Enugu 












 




Search By
News Title
News Content










Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus





													Become a fan on 
												




													 and 
												

Follow @nairapark


													 us on Twitter
												





« Prev 

Next » 

 



 




 



      Most Popular
   
 
 
 


UPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suit

 

         The Unity Party of Nigeria has defended the indefinite suspension slammed on its Chairman and Founder of the Oodua Peoples Congress, Dr.  Frederick Fasehun, saying he was running the party as his...... read more »


 

      Most Commented
   
 
 
 


Waiver: Atiku may face fresh screening

 

         There were indications in Abuja on Sunday that former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar might face fresh screening, in his party, in his bid to realise his presidential ambition.  . . . ...... read more »


 

      Trending on NairaPark...
   
 
 
 

#1.Soldier murders colleague at government house
#2.Gunmen kidnap TASUED deputy vice-chancellor
#3.Emulate Aregbesola’s education policy, Akande tells FG
#4.IYC wants death of Alam’s son probed
#5.PDP plot to stop INEC from deploying troops fails
#6.2015 budget’ll be ready before year end – Senate
#7.We can’t replace Wenger – Arsenal boss
#8.UPN suspends Fasehun, disowns suit
#9.Arsenal scout Emenike
#10.Gangsters behead youth, shoot another dead in Lagos

 











 
 

 


 

 












Favorite Tweets by @nairapark











Bulk Messaging






Sender ID:






Receiver(s):




Type your message here:








            1000 Characters Left
         






 










Quality Website for your Business


                  Own an attractive Website that comes with Free Web Hosting, Domain Reg. and unlimited Email Accounts.
               






 









Quality Website for your Business


                  Own an attractive Website that comes with Free Web Hosting, Domain Reg. and unlimited Email Accounts.
               










 

 Latest on NairaPark Forum
         
 

 


 
 

sharon7 posted: Jonathan to Meet With Governors over SWF

 

               It is only money received that we hear daily. Can we also be shown visible massive infrastructure actualised with those revenues? Infrastructural facilities in Delta State is on the verge of transformation as the state yesterday said it recorded a major breakthrough in the capital market as N50 billion, which was the first tranche of its proposed N100 billion infrastructure bonds was fully...            
 







 

 

Join the Conversation »








 


 


 






 


Free Subscription:



 



  


0 Member and 54 Guests online


NairaPark © 2010 - 2014 - All rights reserved. Send SMS | Advertise | Mobile | Terms | Privacy | Credit 





 





