
    FCT Schools Resume, Comply With Ebola Prevention Directives | 
 Frontiers News 
    FCT Schools Resume, Comply With Ebola Prevention Directives | 
 Frontiers News 






Edition: International |  About Us
Advert Rates
Contact Us



Wednesday 15 October, 2014








Breaking News >



Contents, ContentsXtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Ta...










Trending Topics:
Buhari
 - Ukraine
 - MH17
 - Boko Haram
 - Nigeria
 - Ebola












Xtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Taken Over Of Mission Schools Ebola: Second Texas Health Worker Tests Positive Nollywood Actress Mercy Johnson Delivers Second Baby In US Court Discharges Ajudua Of $1.9m Fraud Charge Military Charges 59 Soldiers With Mutiny, Insubordination 








            




News
Politics
Business
Exclusive
Special Reports
Foreign News
Sports
Gallery
Arts and Entertainment


Home
Press Releases
Opinion
Editorial
Features
Frontiers TV
Corruption in Education
iReport







 

 


 

Published On: Tue, Sep 23rd, 2014 
Contents / Contents | By   



  FCT Schools Resume, Comply With Ebola Prevention Directives

Share This

 





 

 




 


 




 
Tags


 Public and private schools resumed in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Monday with most of them using laser thermometers to screen their pupils in compliance with government directives.
Visits to some schools indicated that most of the schools had procured laser thermometers, hand sanitisers and chlorine water which were placed at the schools entrance to be used by teachers, pupils, parents and visitors.
The school compound was fumigated at the Evangel Academy, Kubwa while pupils of Methodist Nursery and Primary School also in Kubwa were made to engage in thorough hand washing before been allowed into their classes.
At the Kings Spring International School, Kubwa, the security guard ensured that all visitors washed their hands with chlorine water after scanning them with the thermometer.
The same procedure was observed at Harold Curtis Academy, Kubwa, whose Head teacher, Adedeji Anuoluwapo, explained that the pupils were also being monitored when using the toilet to ensure that they were not exhibiting any symptoms.
She said the teachers had been enlightened on the Ebola disease during the holidays, stressing that the school was fully prepared before the resumption date.
Asked if she would have supported the extension of the resumption day, the head teacher said it would not have made any difference as everyone was enlightened and knows what to look out for.
Anuoluwapo said, “We had earlier trained our teachers during the holidays and so, extending the holidays wouldn’t have made any difference. We were prepared and that is why we resumed today (Monday).”
At the Government Secondary School, Byazhin, Kubwa, a bucket of water, sanitisers and a security guard with a laser thermometer indicated that the school had complied with the government directive on the scourge.
At the Government Secondary School, Wuse Zone 3, the Principal, Rukayat Hussein, said the school had an Ebola Committee which was in charge of enlightening the teachers and students and ensuring that all the necessary kits were in place.
The same situation was observed at JSS, Jabi.






About the Author


 - 



Related News















Xtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Taken Over Of Mission Schools





Court Discharges Ajudua Of $1.9m Fraud Charge





Military Charges 59 Soldiers With Mutiny, Insubordination





Synagogue Tragedy: Ondo Students Urges T. B. Joshua To Take Solace In God






 


Leave a comment
 
Click here to cancel reply.  
You must be Logged in to post comment.


 
 







 Tweet

 
 
 Pin It

  









 

 
 
  





     

Media Partners      –>
Prompt News  |
African Examiner  |
Huhu Online  |
Pointblank News  |
Eagle Online  |
The Will Nigeria  |
Watchdog Reporters  |
Per Second News  |
 
   
 



    All Rights Reserved 2014 Frontier News 
         

  














