Africa Ebola Centers Fill Faster Than They Can Be OpenedAfrica Ebola Centers Fill Faster Than They Can Be Opened
















		View mobile site	



 

















































October 15, 2014

Huffpost WorldPost






		Edition: U.S.

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get WorldPostNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search






























iOS app
Android app
More








 Log in
Create Account





Notifications


0














$USERNAME




Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


Politics








Supreme Court Stops Parts Of Texas Abortion Law
386




Doug Butzier, U.S. Senate Candidate, Killed In Plane Crash
27




DSCC Stops Running Ads In Kentucky Senate Race
495




Missouri Official Apparently Calls For Military Coup Against Obama
0




Obama Cancels Trip To Hold Cabinet Meeting On Ebola
0




Go to Politics




More in Politics

Pollster
Politics Blog
Off The Bus
Election Maps
Pollster



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Green
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Gay Voices







Business








Teens Love Brandy Melville, A Fashion Brand That Sells Only One Tiny Size
208




Key Inequality Measure The Highest Since The Great Depression
605




Toyota Issues Recall For 1.67 Million Vehicles
15




Two-Thirds Of America's Biggest Retailers Are Worried About Flat Wages
269




Jimmy John's Makes Low-Wage Workers Sign 'Oppressive' Noncompete Agreements
280




Go to Business




More in Business

Small Biz
Money



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Tech
Media
Arts
Sports
Weird News
Smarter Ideas
Urban Progress







Media








NBC Journalist Issues Statement After Reportedly Breaking Quarantine
651




MSNBC May Cancel 'Ronan Farrow Daily'
143




Chuck Todd Defends Grimes 'Disqualified' Critique, But Says It's 'Cheap' To Use In TV Ad
149




New York Times Reporter James Risen Finds ‘Crazy Is The New Normal' In War On Terror
0




Islamic State Releases 4th Video Of British Journalist
21




Go to Media




More in Media

Eat The Press
Calderone: The Backstory



You Might Also Like

Entertainment
TV
Comedy
Arts
Books
Religion
Moviefone







Green








Huge Earthquake Could Hit San Francisco Any Day
7




With Their Mark On Earth, Humans May Name Era, Too
13




Squids Takes On Submarine In Terrifying Video
0




Another Big Storm Headed To Hawaii's Big Island
0




The Planet Just Had Its Warmest September On Record
492




Go to Green




More in Green

Energy
Climate Change
Animals
Green Tech
Green Holiday



You Might Also Like

Politics
Food
WorldPost
Science
Healthy Living







Tech








Mark Zuckerberg And Wife Donate $25 Million To Fight Ebola
131




HBO To Launch Standalone Streaming Service Next Year
0




How Apple Gets You To Buy New iPhones Over And Over Again
233




Change Your Dropbox Password Right Now
27




'Bendgate' Didn't Stop The Big iPhone 6 From Selling Like Crazy
70




Go to Tech




More in Tech

TEDWeekends
Social Media



You Might Also Like

Small Biz
Green
Science
NY
SF
Smarter Ideas
TechCrunch
Engadget







Arts








Stripped Down Portraits Expose The Vulnerable Side Of Masculinity
34




Coloring Isn't Just For Kids. It Can Actually Help Adults Combat Stress.
53




Here Is 2,500 Years Worth Of Nudes In Art (NSFW)
2




This Is What The Present And Very Near Future Of Architecture Looks Like
2




This Is The Painting That Saved Bill Murray's Life
1




Go to Arts




More in Arts

Painting
Film
Design
Photography
Theater
Architecture



You Might Also Like

Books
NY
Los Angeles







Travel








America's Snobbiest Cities
140




How They Make 'The Amazing Race'
55




If You're Headed To Mexico, You're Doing Things Right
6




10 College Towns To Visit If You're Not In College
11




This New App Is Like Tinder, But For Hotels
3




Go to Travel




More in Travel

Travel Video
Destinations
Themed Guides
TSA
Airlines



You Might Also Like

Food
Arts
World
GPS for the Soul
Recipes







Women








This Comic Perfectly Captures How Feminism Helps Everyone
323




The Night Facebook Suggested I 'Might Know' My Rapist
39




Sarah Silverman's Equal Pay Video Faces Backlash
31




Kristen Stewart Thinks It's 'Ridiculous' To 'Say You're Not A Feminist'
64




How Internet Dating Has Become Ruthless
15




Go to Women




More in Women

Love & Sex
Career & Money
Women's Health



You Might Also Like

Style
Weddings
Divorce
Parents
Healthy Living
Black Voices
Latino Voices







Religion








Conservative Catholics Strike Back Against Welcoming Gays
325




Atheist Wins $2 Million Settlement Over Faith-Based Rehab Program
0




Dramatic Shift Towards Gays Proposed At Vatican
691




Catholics React To 'Revolutionary' Vatican Document
109




What Exactly Did Hillsong's Brian Houston Know About His Dad's Alleged Sex Abuse?
1




Go to Religion




More in Religion

Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism



You Might Also Like

Arts
World
Healthy Living
Impact
GPS for the Soul









HuffPost Live







Now
Vatican Backtracks On Gay Comments 






Next
FYC: New York Film Festival






Coming Up
H. Jon Benjamin LIVE






Coming Up
New York Times Reporter James Risen LIVE






Tomorrow
Author John Warley LIVE




Go to Huffpost Live



All Sections






News

Politics
WorldPost
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News



Entertainment

Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV



Life & Style

Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN
Dr. Phil



Tech & Science

Tech
Science
Green
Code



Voices

Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact



Local

Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Hawaii
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
San Francisco





Our Mobile Apps:

iOS
Android
HuffPost Live (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (Android)










WorldPost


Berggruen Institute on Governance


ChinaFile
























WHO Says There Could Be Up To 10,000 New Ebola Cases Per Week In 2 Months

2014-10-14 08:37:57







Gut-Wrenching Images Show The Brutal Reality Of The Ebola Outbreak In Liberia

2014-10-10 17:11:52







Why A Wisconsin Man Decided To Take On ISIS

2014-10-08 14:19:36







Powerful Quake Strikes Off Coast Of El Salvador

2014-10-14 00:03:10







ISIS May Have Chemical Weapons

2014-10-13 21:01:05







Everything You Need To Know About The Islamic State

2014-10-14 13:55:16







Spanish Ebola Nurse Alerted Hospital Staff 3 Times She Was Feeling Sick

2014-10-08 11:17:00







Indonesia's Erupting Volcano Looks Surreal And Terrifying

2014-10-14 12:10:16







Spanish Nurse With Ebola Worsens

2014-10-09 09:12:00







Brit Who Died In Macedonia Most Likely Did Not Have Ebola

2014-10-10 06:29:00







WHO: Ebola Outbreak In West Africa Still Expanding Geographically

2014-10-14 09:09:00







Kim Jong Un Reappears, Has A Cane Now

2014-10-14 08:43:41







Should Turkey Remain in NATO After the Fall of Kobani?

2014-10-14 11:38:36







WHO: Ebola Is Modern Era's Worst Health Emergency

2014-10-13 07:29:33







Iraqi Girl Escaped ISIS, Tells Of Captivity

2014-10-11 09:49:58




Previous Story
Next Story












Africa Ebola Centers Fill Faster Than They Can Be Opened





 

                                             | By                                                                JONATHAN PAYE-LAYLEH and SARAH DiLORENZO                                    







        Posted: 
            08/15/2014  8:34 am EDT        


        Updated: 
            10/15/2014  5:59 am EDT        






 
Women wait with children in front of the health centre prior to see a doctor in Kandopleu, on August 14, 2014 near Biankouma near the border with Guinea and Liberia. (SSOUF SANOGO/AFP/Getty Images) | ISSOUF SANOGO via Getty Images 







Share






Tweet







Email





Comment













tumblr




stumble



reddit

 






















MONROVIA, Liberia (AP) — The Ebola outbreak that has killed more than 1,100 people in West Africa could last another six months, the Doctors Without Borders charity group said Friday. One aid worker acknowledged that the true death toll is still unknown.New figures released by the World Health Organization showed that Liberia has recorded more Ebola deaths — 413 — than any of the other affected countries.Tarnue Karbbar, who works for the aid group Plan International in northern Liberia, said response teams simply aren't able to document all the erupting Ebola cases. Many of the sick are still being hidden at home by their relatives, who are too fearful of going to an Ebola treatment center.

Others are being buried before the teams can get to remote areas, he said. In the last several days, about 75 cases have emerged in Voinjama, a single Liberian district."Our challenge now is to quarantine the area (in Voinjama) to successfully break the transmission," he said.There is no cure or licensed treatment for Ebola and patients often die gruesome deaths with external bleeding from their mouths, eyes or ears. The killer virus is transmitted through bodily fluids like blood, sweat, urine and diarrhea. A handful of people have received an experimental drug whose effectiveness is unknown.Liberia's assistant health minister, Tolbert Nyenswah, said three people in Liberia were receiving the ZMapp on Friday. Previously, only two Americans and a Spaniard had gotten it. The Americans are improving, but it is not known what role ZMapp played. The Spaniard died.The American doctor infected with Ebola while working in Liberia said Friday he is "recovering in every way" and holding onto the hope of a reunion with his family.Dr. Kent Brantly remained hospitalized Friday at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. His comments came in a statement issued through the Christian aid group Samaritan's Purse.The World Health Organization has approved the use of such untested drugs but their supply is extremely limited.The U.N. health agency has said the focus on containing the outbreak should be on practicing good hygiene and quickly identifying the sick and isolating them. That task is made harder, however, by the shortage of treatment facilities.Beds in such centers are filling up faster than they can be provided, evidence that the outbreak in West Africa is far more severe than the numbers show, said Gregory Hartl, a spokesman for World Health Organization in Geneva.There are 40 beds at one treatment center that Doctors Without Borders recently took over in one quarantined county in Liberia. But 137 people have flocked there, packing the hallways until they can be sorted into those who are infected and those are not, said Joanne Liu, the group's international president.Nyenswah described a similar situation in a treatment center in Liberia's capital of Monrovia: In one ward meant to accommodate up to 25 people, 80 are now crowded in. Another treatment center with 120 beds is expected to open Saturday outside Monrovia."It's absolutely dangerous," said Liu, who recently returned from Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. "With the massive influx of patients that we had over the last few days, we're not able to keep zones of patients anymore. Everybody is mixed."Liu likened the situation to a state of war because the "frontline" was always moving and unpredictable. She said the outbreak could last six more months.The death toll is now 1,145 people in four countries across West Africa, according to figures released Friday by the World Health Organization. At least 2,127 cases have been reported in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Nigeria, WHO said.Sierra Leone's president, Ernest Bai Koroma, told journalists Friday that the country has lost two doctors and 32 nurses to Ebola."We need specialized clinicians and expertise and that is why we are appealing to the international community for an enhanced response to our fight" against Ebola, he said.The Ebola crisis is also disrupting food supplies and transportation. Some 1 million people in isolated areas could need food assistance in the coming months, according to the U.N. World Food Program, which is preparing a regional emergency operation.Amid a growing number of airline cancellations, the U.N. will start flights for humanitarian workers on Saturday to ensure that aid operations aren't interrupted. In the coming weeks, they will also ferry staff to remote areas by helicopter.___DiLorenzo reported from Dakar, Senegal. Associated Press writers Clarence Roy-Macaulay and Krista Larson in Dakar, Senegal and contributed to this report.





Related on HuffPost:







Close






Ebola Outbreak



of




























In this March 28, 2014 photo provided by Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders), healthcare workers from the organization prepare isolation and treatment areas for their Ebola virus operations in Gueckedou, Guinea. One preacher advocated fasting and prayer to spare people from a virus that usually leads to a horrible death. Some people pray that the Ebola virus stays confined to a rural district. Others are unruffled and say the outbreak will blow over. (Kjell Gunnar Beraas/MSF/AP)



Workers from Doctors Without Borders prepare isolation and treatment areas for their Ebola virus operations in Gueckedou, Guinea. (Kjell Gunnar Beraas/MSF/AP)



A member of Doctors Without Borders puts on protective gear at the isolation ward of the Donka Hospital in Conakry, where people infected with the Ebola virus are being treated. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



Health specialists work at an isolation ward for patients at the  Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea.  (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



Dr. Kent Brantly, left, treats an Ebola patient at the Samaritan's Purse Ebola Case Management Center in Monrovia, Liberia. On Saturday, July 26, 2014, the North Carolina-based aid organization said Brantly tested positive for the disease. (Samaritan's Purse/AP)



Doctors Without Borders staff members carry the body of a person killed by viral haemorrhagic fever at a center for victims of the Ebola virus in Gueckedou, on April 1, 2014. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



Health specialists work in an isolation ward for patients at the  Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea.   (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



A view of gloves and boots used by medical staff, drying in the sun, at a center for victims of the Ebola virus in Gueckedou, on April 1, 2014. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



A 10-year-old boy is showered after being taken out of quarantine following his mother's death caused by the Ebola virus, in the Christian charity Samaritan's Purse Ebola treatment center at the ELWA hospital in the Liberian capital Monrovia, on July 24, 2014. (Zoom Dosso/AFP/Getty Images)



A health specialist works in a laboratory set up in a tent at an isolation ward for patients at the Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



View of an isolation center for people infected with Ebola at Donka Hospital in Conakry. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



A worker loads material including protection gear for Doctors Without Borders at the airport of Conakry on March 29, 2014. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



The owners of a "maquis," a small African restaurant in Kobakro, outside Abidjan, which used to serve bush meat, hold up the different types of meat and fish they now offer to their clients. The Ministry of Health has asked Ivorians, "particularly fond of porcupine and agouti," a small rodent, to avoid consuming or handling bushmeat, as an unprecedented Ebola epidemic hit West Africa. The virus can spread to animal primates and humans who handle infected meat -- a risk given the informal trade in "bushmeat" in forested central and west Africa. (Issouf Sanogo/AFP/Getty Images)



A pharmacist searches for drugs in a pharmacy in Lagos on July 26, 2014. Nigeria was on alert against the possible spread of Ebola on July 26, a day after the first confirmed death from the virus in Lagos, the country's financial capital and Africa's biggest city. The health ministry said Friday that a 40-year-old Liberian man died at a private hospital in Lagos from the disease, which has now killed more than 650 people in four west African countries since January. (Pius Utomi Ekpei/AFP/Getty Images)



The Arwa clinic (center) that was closed after the clinic doctor was infected by the Ebola virus in the capital city of Freetown, Sierra Leone. Ebola had never before been seen in this part of West Africa. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



In this photo taken July 27, 2014, medical personnel are pictured inside a clinic taking care of Ebola patients in the Kenema District on the outskirts of Kenema, Sierra Leone. Liberia President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has closed some border crossings and ordered strict quarantines of communities affected by the Ebola outbreak. The announcement late Sunday came a day after Sirleaf formed a new taskforce charged with containing the disease, which has killed 129 people in the country and more than 670 across the region. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



Health workers teach people about the Ebola virus and how to prevent infection, in Conakry, Guinea, on March 31, 2014. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



This photo provided by the CDC shows an Ebola virus. U.S. health officials are monitoring the Ebola outbreak in Africa but say the risk of the deadly germ spreading to the United States is remote. (CDC/AP)



Dr. David McRay speaks about his friend and colleague Dr. Kent Brantly during a news conference on Monday, July 28, 2014, in Fort Worth, Texas. Brantly is one of two American aid workers that have tested positive for the Ebola virus while working to combat an outbreak of the deadly disease at a hospital in Liberia. (LM Otero/AP)









 Share


 Tweet








✖











Advertisement

























Share this
✖ close



 Current Slide			




 




More:


Africa Ebola Centers


EBOLA 


Ebola Virus


Ebola


Ebola Treatment


Ebola Outbreak West Africa


Ebola Outbreak Africa





Suggest a correction



















Around the Web
 U.S., foreign health workers to flock to West Africa amid Ebola crisis ... The response to West Africa's Ebola outbreak may end up doing a ... Opting Against Ebola Drug for Ill African Doctor - NYTimes.com 












Suggested For You









FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address




Options


The Morning Email



WorldPost




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost



 
WorldPost

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow


WorldPost

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost



WorldPost








RSS



Most Popular on HuffPost


Latest News


WorldPost


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World
















Afroman Remade Because I Got High to Convey That Weed Won’t Actually Ruin Your Life
 





11 Halloween Costumes for People Who Spend Too Much Time on the Internet
 





Watch a Squirrel Rudely Wake Up a Sleeping Panda
 





Time - Politics










































Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads


Contact Us




Copyright ©2014 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of HPMG News














 












Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Morning Email


Thank you!


























 
 

