When Ebola Came Calling | National Peace Corps AssociationWhen Ebola Came Calling | National Peace Corps Association




National Peace Corps Association
Contact Us
About Us
Community(FREE)
Login
 
Join Today
Donate Now 




Community
News
Resources
Advocacy
Store





Polyglot 


 
When Ebola Came Calling
By Guest Contributor on Friday, September 26th, 2014
A shipment of protective gear, sent by Global Health Ministries, arrives at Phebe Hospital in Bong County. Friends of Liberia teamed with GHM to send the next shipment to this hospital, also one in northern Lofa County, Curran Hospital, and the John F. Kennedy Hospital in Monrovia.
Pat Reilly, a member of the Friends of Liberia Board of Trustees, shared the following background on the recent Ebola resurgence, and relief efforts already underway. Find out how you can contribute to the NPCA Ebola Relief Fund. 
The first whispers of Ebola in Liberia came from near the Guinea border weeks before Memorial Day. I remember because I was trying to persuade a neighbor’s child to take an assignment in my Peace Corps country. Her father had heard about Ebola. I said that there were plenty of dangerous diseases in West Africa, but with the proper precautions, one would not be affected. How wrong I was.
As the disease jumped from northernmost Lofa County to Monrovia, Friends of Liberia early debated whether to give money outright or spend it advocating for the big organizations to do more. By July, it was clear the only “big player” left on the ground was Doctors Without Borders, and their presence in Liberia was small. Other groups had scaled back when workers became infected. Hospitals, of which there are few, were closing because health workers were dying and others wouldn’t risk coming to work.
We dug into our general fund and gave $10,000 each to Doctors Without Borders and Global Health Ministries, which has long supported two key faith-based hospitals in Northern Liberia. They were sending personal protective equipment (PPE) air freight through Canada as airlines scaled back their flights to West Africa. By the time the equipment reached Liberia, in August, the World Health Organization had awakened to the crisis and was directing cargo planes of PPE into Robertsfield.
The death toll from Ebola had passed one thousand and the wider fallout from the Ebola was everywhere evident.
Earlier support from Friends of Liberia included the purchase and shipment of protective equipment for health care workers.
“Thanks to the GHM Team and our wonderful hard working volunteers for a job well done…. Photo[s] of some of the materials already being put to put use.”Pregnant women were dying in childbirth for lack of assistance. Children and the old were succumbing to malaria, cholera and the usual diseases that prey on the vulnerable. FOL set up an Ebola Task Force and sought to identify unmet needs at the community level. Two local heroes quickly came to mind. We sent funds to them even before the international press singled them out.
Sister Barbara Brillant, Dean of the Mother Patern School of Health Sciences, returned from leave in the U.S. to boot up the Catholic Hospital and its system of clinics. The hospital had lost its administrator to Ebola early in the crisis. She has recently written for the Huffington Post.
See what the New York Times said about Dr. MosakaFallah, a home-grown Harvard-trained microbiologist, who was tracing contacts from the get-go and who has since become a critical interlocutor between Western medical workers and frightened communities. We knew that he was trying to reopen the clinic at his private non-profit clinic in Chicken Soup Factory, his home neighborhood in Monrovia. He will provide free medical care to whoever comes in.
Finally, and very close to home, Nancy Wallace (PCR1), Executive Director of Women’s Campaign International, who has run trainings since 2010 for the National Rural Women’s program, asked us to create a fund for the Ebola-affected in that community. The network of female leaders in more than 150 communities throughout Liberia is asking for help with feeding the quarantined, caring for orphans and removal of bodies.
WCI’s Program Manager for Liberia is Monica Gadkari (RPCV Romania) who has a master’s in Public Administration. They shared this poignant report Sept. 16 from their northern Nimba County field officer as deaths surge:
“There is an increase in the death rate in Ganta today, 2 persons died yesterday and 9 persons today from the newly quarantine communities just mentioned last night in the proposal, the death rate in Ganta likely to rise in the coming days.There are over 260 people presently in quarantine, and some … have started dying from yesterday. 13 new infected cases reported today.”
This on the day that the United States committed to send hospitals and military to staff them to help stem the tide of the worst Ebola outbreak in history.
It’s now weeks after Labor Day and no one doubts that Ebola and its effects will be with us for years to come. Let us hope that the response of the world will stay with us through this deadly season.
In collaboration with Returned Peace Corps Volunteer member groups representing three of the main affected countries — Friends of Guinea, Friends of Liberia and Friends of Sierra Leone — and in response to community interest to assist in the region, the National Peace Corps Association (NPCA) is launching an Ebola Relief Fund. Contributions will be accepted and acknowledged via the NPCA website and designated 100% towards Ebola-related relief efforts. Learn more and how to donate.



0
Comments




Related Topics
National Peace Corps Association Establishes Ebola Relief Fund 
Liberian President Praises Returned Peace Corps Group 
NPCA Featured Group: Friends of Liberia 






Add a Comment
Click here to cancel reply.

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website


Remember me


Email me when someone replies to this comment.











Facebook
Twitter
Flickr
RSS
Email
Ning
Youtube
LinkedIn
Tripping
Share


CategoriesPolyglot
Advocacy
Community News
Service
 

Sign Up 



Join Our Electronic Mailing List!







Email: 










Community

Peace Corps Connect – Our Annual Gathering
Social Network
Find the 250K
Couchsurfing/Hospitality
In Memoriam
Africa Rural Connect
Peace Corps 50th Anniversary


News

Advocacy
Polyglot
Community News
Service
Press Releases
WorldView Magazine


Resources

Overview
Member Groups
Peace Corps Volunteer Archives
Mentoring Program
Jobs
Next Step Travel
Merchandise: Shop for NPCA
Member Deals & Discounts
Education


Advocacy

Overview
Victories
State Resources
National Day of Action
District Meeting Days


About Us

Overview
History
Board of Directors
Board Emeriti Program
Advisory Council
Serving Volunteer Advisory Council
Our Staff
Interns and Consultants
Annual Reports
Awards


Contact Us

Overview
Advertising
Contributing
Membership
Internship Program
Media Resources
FAQs


 
Copyright © 2014 National Peace Corps Association. All Rights Reserved
Privacy PolicyTerms of Service






Designed By Whitmoyer
Developed By Infamia










48 queries in 1.316 seconds.

