CDC says crew members aboard a ship at Belle Chasse have malaria | WGNOCDC says crew members aboard a ship at Belle Chasse have malaria | WGNO





GoSearch







 Replay:  
 Schedule


 Search
 Contact Us






WGNO

 Menu

News
Twist
Sports
On Air
Contests
Traffic
Events
About




Weather 

75°







75°


Low 61°
High 78°





Thu


					55°  82°
					


Fri


					63°  85°
					


Sat


					68°  83°
					


See complete forecast




 










 







CDC says crew members aboard a ship at Belle Chasse have malaria

Posted 9:42 PM, September 17, 2014, by Vanessa Bolano and Tanya Sinkovits, Updated at 09:56pm, September 17, 2014 

FacebookTwitterGooglePinterestLinkedInEmail 


UPDATE: The shipping vessel which had malaria-stricken crew members aboard docked in New Orleans around 1:35 p.m. Thursday. The Marine Phoenix will unload its cargo Friday morning.
Click here to see video of the ship traveling upstream



BELLE CHASSE, La. (WGNO) –  The Marine Phoenix is in a holding pattern in the Mississippi River at Belle Chasse. The Center for Disease and Control said sick crew members aboard the ship have malaria.
The Marine Phoenix arrived at Belle Chasse around 3 p.m. Wednesday. It came from western Africa, where countries there are dealing with a historic Ebola outbreak.
As of Wednesday night, one crewman was transported from the cargo ship in critical condition and taken to West Jefferson Medical Center, but Plaquemines Parish President Billy Nungesser told us several other sick crew members are still aboard the tanker.
According to a statement from the hospital, federal and state health officials managed the patient transfer this afternoon.
The Port Authority of New Orleans tells WGNO News that the Marine Phoenix will dock at Jourdan Road Terminal in 9th ward around 10 a.m. Thursday.
Until then delivery river boat pilots have been told to make no deliveries to the ship. The entire ship is under quarantine until health officials pinpoint exactly what is going on.
It’s unsure how many crewmen work aboard the Marine Phoenix, but vessels like this usually carry close to 30 crew members.
Previous story: African ship carrying sick crewmen to dock in New Orleans


Filed in: Health, Local Topics: Malaria 








			4 comments		




 

shelly

Bullshit is Ebola were not stupid!




							September 17, 2014 at 11:25 PM						








 

Oh Shelly...

I think that you’re an exception to your comment. You managed to butcher a six word sentence.




							September 18, 2014 at 2:26 PM						










 

Slash

“delivery river boat pilots?” That’s a new one. 27 years on the river, and I’ve never heard of such a thing. Try “launch boat operators.”
 “Jourdan Ward Terminal in 9th ward…”  Jourdan Road Terminal  is in New Orleans East. 
Finally, it’s a refrigerated cargo ship, not a tanker. Jourdan Road Terminal loads frozen goods for export. New Orleans Cold Storage operates the facility.
Please try to get at least one fact correct per article, thanks.




							September 18, 2014 at 4:36 AM						








 

BeEtLjOoZ

Reblogged this on LouisianaWorld.Net | BattleOfOurTimes.Com and commented:
#Louisiana




							September 18, 2014 at 11:25 AM						






Comments are closed.






 








 

 


Popular



Judge releases victim’s identity in Destrehan teacher sex scandal



Florida woman quits teaching job to twerk for living, now making six figures



10-year-old boy confesses to beating 90-year-old woman to death



VIDEO: Georgia hunter finds naked man in the woods







 


Latest News



Body found in Lake Pontchartrain



NOFD responding to fire at Canal Street hotel



DNA match leads to arrest in Kenner rape/burglary case



Wanted: Susupect who shot man over unpaid debt












Related Stories


Good Morning New Orleans Health Local National/World News

Ship travels to New Orleans after malaria-striken crew members evacuated


Health Local

African ship carrying sick crewmen to dock in New Orleans


Health Local News

Medical expert talks Infectious Disease preparedness


VooDoo Athlete of the Week

Voodoo Athlete of the Week: Belle Chasse’s Andrew Hicks


Crime Local News

Six Belle Chasse residents are booked with kidnapping and drug charges



 


Health National/World News

CDC says patient being treated at Dallas hospital has Ebola, first U.S. diagnosed case


Friday Night Football

Belle Chasse defeats South Plaquemines 42-12


Friday Night Football

It’s a blowout: Belle Chasse beats Chalmette in week 5


News

Deputies Investigating Plaquemines Parish’s Second Possible Accidental Drowning in the Past Three Days


Good Morning New Orleans Health National/World News News

Health officials say there may be a second Ebola case in U.S.



 


Health National/World News

Texas nurse tests positive for Ebola, would be 1st Ebola transmission in U.S.


National/World News

Officials Release Nationalities of Passengers Aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 17


News

Sick Veterans Sick of Waiting






 





Mobile AppsAndroid App
iPhone & iPad App




Facebook
Twitter
About & Contact







Online Public File • 				Terms of Service •
		Privacy Policy  •
		1 Galleria Blvd., Suite 850 Metairie, LA 70001  •
		Copyright © 2014, WGNO		 • A Tribune Broadcasting Station •
		Powered by WordPress.com VIP 





×
Email Alerts









































Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			
















