These Photos Reveal The Grim Reality Of Ebola In Sierra LeoneThese Photos Reveal The Grim Reality Of Ebola In Sierra Leone
















		View mobile site	



 

















































October 15, 2014

Huffpost Healthy Living






		Edition: U.S.

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get Healthy LivingNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search






























iOS app
Android app
More








 Log in
Create Account





Notifications


0














$USERNAME




Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


Women








This Comic Perfectly Captures How Feminism Helps Everyone
323




The Night Facebook Suggested I 'Might Know' My Rapist
39




Sarah Silverman's Equal Pay Video Faces Backlash
31




Kristen Stewart Thinks It's 'Ridiculous' To 'Say You're Not A Feminist'
64




How Internet Dating Has Become Ruthless
15




Go to Women




More in Women

Love & Sex
Career & Money
Women's Health



You Might Also Like

Style
Weddings
Divorce
Parents
Healthy Living
Black Voices
Latino Voices







Taste








8 Reasons Why People Really, Really Love Wegmans
22




Martha Stewart Takes Another Dig At Gwyneth Paltrow With 'Conscious Coupling' Story
110




Attention: Greek Yogurt Is Not Just For Breakfast
1




Behold, The Veggie Burger That Bleeds
1




15 Best Mac And Cheese Spots In America
3




Go to Taste




More in Taste

Recipes
Baking
Entertaining
Healthy Eating
Taste Tests
Thanksgiving



You Might Also Like

Food
Healthy Living
Travel
OWN







Good News








These Disney Characters Have Some Magical Selfie Game
1




We Love Shelter Pets! According To This Report, You Do Too
13




This Cat And This Baby Deer Just Pranced Right Into Our Hearts
34




This Guy Was Dancing Alone On A Train. Then People Started To Join In.
23




Golden Retrievers Tend To Owner For 2 Days After Fall Until Help Arrives, Show True Loyalty
39




Go to Good News




You Might Also Like

GPS for the Soul
Weird News
Comedy
Impact
Green
Healthy Living
Comedy
Books
Arts







Parents








The Time P!nk's Toddler Dropped The F-Bomb
26




16 Things I Want My Daughter To Know
50




7 Bizarre (But Common) Pregnancy Dreams, And What They Really Mean
8




The Beautiful Breastfeeding Photograph Causing A Stir Online
102




Dad Captures Beautiful Photos Of Son's Childhood After Almost Losing Him
14




Go to Parents




More in Parents

Parentry
Moms
Dads
Screen Sense



You Might Also Like

Education
Food
Taste
Arts
Teen
Post 50







Style








Makeup Artist Transforms Herself Into Rocky, Keith Richards & More Icons
10




Gisele Bundchen's Chanel No. 5 Commercial Has Us Envious For All The Right Reasons
0




The Unexpected Fall Nail Color You Should Be Wearing
68




6 Absurd Items From The Neiman Marcus Christmas Book That We Kind Of Want
2




Bet You Didn't Know Katie Holmes Could Do This
0




Go to Style




More in Style

The Beauty Page
Fashion Trends
Celebrity Style



You Might Also Like

Home
Women
Parents
Weddings
Travel
Divorce
Post 50







Post50








How Suzanne Somers Keeps Her Sex Life Steamy At 67
0




6 Halloween Treats From Our Youth That Make Us Want To Be Kids Again
17




Actress Madeleine Stowe On Conquering Limitations After 50
0




Why I'm Thinking Of Separating From A Wonderful Man After 27 Years Together
27




Go to Post50




More in Post50

Reinvention
Retirement
Parenting
Health
Love



You Might Also Like

Parents
GPS for the Soul
Women
Money
Healthy Living







Religion








Conservative Catholics Strike Back Against Welcoming Gays
325




Atheist Wins $2 Million Settlement Over Faith-Based Rehab Program
0




Dramatic Shift Towards Gays Proposed At Vatican
691




Catholics React To 'Revolutionary' Vatican Document
109




What Exactly Did Hillsong's Brian Houston Know About His Dad's Alleged Sex Abuse?
1




Go to Religion




More in Religion

Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism



You Might Also Like

Arts
World
Healthy Living
Impact
GPS for the Soul







Weddings








Air Force Captain's Proposal To NFL Cheerleader Is The Definition Of All-American Sweetness
0




Married Couples Reveal What Really Happens On The Wedding Night
3




9 Pieces Of Advice Married Couples Wish They Had Known On Their Wedding Day
5




See Who Got Married This Weekend!
0




Go to Weddings




More in Weddings

Planning 101
Etiquette and Advice
Indiebride
Honeymoons
Destination Weddings
Weddings 2.0
After the Wedding



You Might Also Like

Style
Travel
Food









HuffPost Live







Now
Vatican Backtracks On Gay Comments 






Next
FYC: New York Film Festival






Coming Up
H. Jon Benjamin LIVE






Coming Up
New York Times Reporter James Risen LIVE






Tomorrow
Author John Warley LIVE




Go to Huffpost Live



All Sections






News

Politics
WorldPost
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News



Entertainment

Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV



Life & Style

Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN
Dr. Phil



Tech & Science

Tech
Science
Green
Code



Voices

Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact



Local

Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Hawaii
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
San Francisco





Our Mobile Apps:

iOS
Android
HuffPost Live (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (Android)










Healthy Living


Health And Fitness


GPS for the Soul


Health News


Sleep


Healthy Living Videos


Moments Not Milestones


Lifestyle


Third Metric


Thrive
























Ebola Patient Flew Day Before Symptoms Started

2014-10-15 11:30:04







2nd Dallas Hospital Worker To Contract Ebola ID'd

2014-10-15 11:38:03







Second Health Care Worker With Ebola Was In Isolation Within 90 Minutes: Official

2014-10-15 08:45:58







2nd Texas Health Care Worker Tests Positive For Ebola

2014-10-15 05:08:17







Health Officials Monitoring 125 For Ebola Symptoms

2014-10-14 18:07:35







Nurses: Ebola Patient Was Left In Open Area For Hours

2014-10-15 09:42:00







About 70 Hospital Staffers Cared For Ebola Patient, Records Show

2014-10-13 18:49:31







10 Foods You Might Be Eating Wrong

2014-10-12 11:11:13







Nurses Say U.S. Hospitals Aren't Adequately Prepared To Handle Ebola Patients

2014-10-14 13:14:02







First Known Person To Contract Ebola In U.S. Identified

2014-10-13 12:19:58







12 Weird Health Tips That Really Work

2014-10-12 11:11:03







WATCH: 8 Exercises You're Probably Doing Wrong

2014-10-10 08:17:21







This Illustration Of Ebola Coverage Shows How Problematic Media Reports Can Be

2014-10-08 19:52:48







Famous Surgeon: 'Our Health System Has Failed Brittany Maynard'

2014-10-13 13:15:40







A 29-Year-Old Woman's Heartbreaking Choice To Access Death With Dignity

2014-10-08 18:37:05




Previous Story
Next Story


















Amanda L. Chan
Become a fan
Amanda.chan@huffingtonpost.com





Email













These Photos Reveal The Grim Reality Of Ebola In Sierra Leone




        Posted: 
            09/23/2014  8:18 am EDT        


        Updated: 
            10/10/2014  1:59 pm EDT        














Share






Tweet








0




Email





Comment













tumblr




stumble



reddit

 






















For the last two years, writer and photographer Tommy Trenchard has been documenting life in Sierra Leone -- one of the three West African countries hardest hit by the world's worst Ebola outbreak. Trenchard shared with us his photos documenting the outbreak in Sierra Leone and Liberia, and also provided some insights into what it's like to live in these countries right now.HuffPost: How did you end up in Sierra Leone? Trenchard: I'm a writer and photographer, and I traveled before through Sierra Leone just by chance. It's a beautiful country, and it really struck me. I've been living there for the past two years now.You've been living in Sierra Leone since before the Ebola outbreak began. How different is life there now?A lot of things have changed. Sierra Leone -- Freetown, in particular -- is an incredibly vibrant place. People live their lives on the streets as much as anywhere else. The markets are stunning and colorful. But you don't really see so much of that now. There's a curfew in place so people can't go out late. Restaurants and bars have been closed down. The Ebola outbreak has affected business hard, especially in the rural areas, which have been locked out from the capital for over a month now [the Kenema and Kailahun districts].The usually bustling center of Kailahun, Sierra Leone, where economic activity has slowed as a result of Ebola.There are military checkpoints in place. Only journalists and aid workers are able to go through to these areas. They're very isolated and cut off. Whereas in Liberia, [Ebola] is much more of an urban problem.A team of body collectors carry the body of a suspected Ebola victim up a hillside in Monrovia, Liberia.Can you paint a picture of the overall mood of the locals from where you live in Sierra Leone?It's hard to say, since people react in a lot of different ways. There's an overriding mood of despondency and frustration. But at the same time, more people are starting to accept the Ebola message and contribute to the fight against the disease. But the disease is still getting worse and not better in Sierra Leone, and people are not feeling overly positive about it.A man in the village of Barkedu in northern Liberia watches a burial team preparing for a job. Workers involved with Ebola are often shunned by their friends and families.What measures are you seeing on behalf of the governments and health workers to spread awareness of Ebola?To spread awareness, they're really using all mediums. There are billboards, there are signs, people are walking around communities with loudspeakers. There are a lot of forums arranged where people can ask questions of these outreach teams. And they're also trying to use survivors to make the point that Ebola is not a death sentence, and if you check yourself in in good time, there's a reasonable chance of survival.An unmade bed in the village of Njala Ngiema, in Sierra Leone. When a person dies of Ebola, the community is usually too afraid to enter their room, which remains untouched and frozen in time.In Liberia, where I've been the last three weeks, they're selling water buckets for 10 dollars all over Monrovia, the capital. You're supposed to fill them with a mix of chlorine and water to disinfect your hands at every opportunity. Some people have started wearing gloves.But there are also a lot of people who don't really seem to have taken any measures to protect themselves. There are still pockets of resistance, and a lot of fatalistic reliance on God and religion to save people.Some people have stopped hugging and shaking hands, such as members of the medical establishment who are so aware of how the virus is transmitted. But you also see people interacting much as they did before; children still play and fight, adults are still shaking hands and hugging.Children fly kites in the Ebola-hit slum of West Point, in Liberia's capital, Monrovia. Moments of normality continue, amid the chaos.What is the general attitude toward treatment centers and trusting that the government actions are effective at curbing Ebola?Again, you have a very mixed bag. And it's changing, thanks to a lot of hard work from awareness teams and outreach teams. However, many are still too afraid to check themselves into a hospital.Messi Boa lost both parents and her grandmother to Ebola. Now she has nobody left to look after her. She lives with her sister in the hard-hit village of Njala Ngiema, in Sierra Leone.What is one of the biggest misconceptions about the outbreak that you see perpetuated in the West?To be honest, I think the overriding misconception is about how the disease could spread in a more developed nation. There was a lot of hype in the media awhile ago, and a lot of people still seem to see Ebola spreading in the U.S. as an actual risk. But with the right attitude and health system, it's actually a really hard disease to contract, which is what makes [the current outbreak] so sad.Do you think recent declarations from the U.S. and other countries pledging money and aid to help fight the outbreak have changed the outlook on the outbreak among locals at all?I wish I could say the international interventions have raised the mood, but it really is generally still quite negative. Much of what the U.S. is sending will go to treating the virus, but really it's preventing it that's just as serious.Men pray in the forest outside the remote Liberian village of Barkedu after a suspected Ebola victim is buried.This interview has been edited for length and clarity. Additional research by Damon Dahlen.This story is part of "Inside an Outbreak," a HuffPost series taking you to the front lines of the world's worst Ebola outbreak. For more information on how you can help, visit HuffPost Impact.More from the series: 
Experiences From 7 CDC Workers At The Front Lines Of The Ebola Crisis
'Ebola Is A Shadow, An Inescapable Shadow -- And It Doesn't Seem To Move'
Ebola In Sierra Leone: 'It Reminded Me Of A Conflict Zone'
Ebola In Liberia: 'It'll Get Worse Before It Gets Better. And The Worse It Gets, The Harder It Becomes.'
The Heartbreaking, Uncensored Reality Of Covering Ebola As A Journalist
What It's Like To Be An Ebola Survivor In Sierra Leone






Also on HuffPost:







Close






Ebola Outbreak



of




























In this March 28, 2014 photo provided by Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders), healthcare workers from the organization prepare isolation and treatment areas for their Ebola virus operations in Gueckedou, Guinea. One preacher advocated fasting and prayer to spare people from a virus that usually leads to a horrible death. Some people pray that the Ebola virus stays confined to a rural district. Others are unruffled and say the outbreak will blow over. (Kjell Gunnar Beraas/MSF/AP)



Workers from Doctors Without Borders prepare isolation and treatment areas for their Ebola virus operations in Gueckedou, Guinea. (Kjell Gunnar Beraas/MSF/AP)



A member of Doctors Without Borders puts on protective gear at the isolation ward of the Donka Hospital in Conakry, where people infected with the Ebola virus are being treated. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



Health specialists work at an isolation ward for patients at the  Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea.  (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



Dr. Kent Brantly, left, treats an Ebola patient at the Samaritan's Purse Ebola Case Management Center in Monrovia, Liberia. On Saturday, July 26, 2014, the North Carolina-based aid organization said Brantly tested positive for the disease. (Samaritan's Purse/AP)



Doctors Without Borders staff members carry the body of a person killed by viral haemorrhagic fever at a center for victims of the Ebola virus in Gueckedou, on April 1, 2014. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



Health specialists work in an isolation ward for patients at the  Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea.   (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



A view of gloves and boots used by medical staff, drying in the sun, at a center for victims of the Ebola virus in Gueckedou, on April 1, 2014. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



A 10-year-old boy is showered after being taken out of quarantine following his mother's death caused by the Ebola virus, in the Christian charity Samaritan's Purse Ebola treatment center at the ELWA hospital in the Liberian capital Monrovia, on July 24, 2014. (Zoom Dosso/AFP/Getty Images)



A health specialist works in a laboratory set up in a tent at an isolation ward for patients at the Doctors Without Borders facility in Gueckedou, southern Guinea. (Seyllou/AFP/Getty Images)



View of an isolation center for people infected with Ebola at Donka Hospital in Conakry. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



A worker loads material including protection gear for Doctors Without Borders at the airport of Conakry on March 29, 2014. (Cellou Binani/AFP/Getty Images)



The owners of a "maquis," a small African restaurant in Kobakro, outside Abidjan, which used to serve bush meat, hold up the different types of meat and fish they now offer to their clients. The Ministry of Health has asked Ivorians, "particularly fond of porcupine and agouti," a small rodent, to avoid consuming or handling bushmeat, as an unprecedented Ebola epidemic hit West Africa. The virus can spread to animal primates and humans who handle infected meat -- a risk given the informal trade in "bushmeat" in forested central and west Africa. (Issouf Sanogo/AFP/Getty Images)



A pharmacist searches for drugs in a pharmacy in Lagos on July 26, 2014. Nigeria was on alert against the possible spread of Ebola on July 26, a day after the first confirmed death from the virus in Lagos, the country's financial capital and Africa's biggest city. The health ministry said Friday that a 40-year-old Liberian man died at a private hospital in Lagos from the disease, which has now killed more than 650 people in four west African countries since January. (Pius Utomi Ekpei/AFP/Getty Images)



The Arwa clinic (center) that was closed after the clinic doctor was infected by the Ebola virus in the capital city of Freetown, Sierra Leone. Ebola had never before been seen in this part of West Africa. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



In this photo taken July 27, 2014, medical personnel are pictured inside a clinic taking care of Ebola patients in the Kenema District on the outskirts of Kenema, Sierra Leone. Liberia President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has closed some border crossings and ordered strict quarantines of communities affected by the Ebola outbreak. The announcement late Sunday came a day after Sirleaf formed a new taskforce charged with containing the disease, which has killed 129 people in the country and more than 670 across the region. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



Health workers teach people about the Ebola virus and how to prevent infection, in Conakry, Guinea, on March 31, 2014. (Youssouf Bah/AP)



This photo provided by the CDC shows an Ebola virus. U.S. health officials are monitoring the Ebola outbreak in Africa but say the risk of the deadly germ spreading to the United States is remote. (CDC/AP)



Dr. David McRay speaks about his friend and colleague Dr. Kent Brantly during a news conference on Monday, July 28, 2014, in Fort Worth, Texas. Brantly is one of two American aid workers that have tested positive for the Ebola virus while working to combat an outbreak of the deadly disease at a hospital in Liberia. (LM Otero/AP)









 Share


 Tweet








✖











Advertisement

























Share this
✖ close



 Current Slide			




 




More:


Ebola Sierra Leone


Ebola


Tommy Trenchard


Ebola Liberia


Tommy Trenchard Ebola Sierra Leone


Tommy Trenchard Ebola





Suggest a correction






















 


Click here to view Conversations


Conversations


















 

From Our Partners


 


Suggested For You









FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address




Options


The Morning Email



Healthy Living




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost



 
Healthy Living

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow


Healthy Living

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost



Healthy Living








RSS



Most Popular on HuffPost


Latest News


Healthy Living


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World












































Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads


Contact Us




Copyright ©2014 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of AOL Lifestyle














 












Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Morning Email


Thank you!


























 
 

