Obama to detail plans on Ebola offensive Tuesday -WSJ | Daily Mail OnlineObama to detail plans on Ebola offensive Tuesday -WSJ | Daily Mail Online
































 












 Home




 U.K.




 News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







Wires Home



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad






























Obama to detail plans on Ebola offensive Tuesday -WSJ
By

Reuters


Published:
  20:54 EST, 14 September 2014

 | 
Updated:
  20:54 EST, 14 September 2014





















Sept 14 (Reuters) - U.S. President Barack Obama is expected
to detail on Tuesday a plan to boost his country's involvement
in mitigating the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, the Wall Street
Journal reported on Sunday.The plan would involve a greater involvement of the U.S.
military in tackling the worst recorded outbreak of the deadly
Ebola virus, the Journal reported, citing people familiar with
the proposal.The outbreak has now killed upwards of 2,400 people, mostly
in Liberia, neighbouring Guinea and Sierra Leone as poorly
resourced West African healthcare systems have been overrun.The U.S. government has already committed around $100
million to tackle the outbreak by providing protective equipment
for healthcare workers, food, water, medical and hygiene
equipment.Obama could ask Congress for an additional $88 million to
fund his proposal, the WSJ reported. Plan details are expected
during Obama's visit Tuesday to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention in Atlanta.The move would come just days after Liberian President Ellen
Johnson Sirleaf appealed to Obama for urgent aid, saying that
without it her country would lose the fight against the disease.The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned that the
epidemic is spreading exponentially in Liberia, where more than
half of the deaths have been recorded.The U.S. military said recently it would build a 25-bed
field hospital in Liberia to care for infected health workers
but it would hand it to Liberians to run.On Friday, the U.S. Ambassador to Liberia Deborah Malac said
Washington would train security forces in isolation operations,
after a boy was shot dead last month when Liberian soldiers
opened fire on a crowd protesting at a quarantine in a Monrovia
neighbourhood.

 (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos in New York; Editing by Eric
Walsh)


Share or comment on this article








































Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.









Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search





















Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail







 
 
DON'T MISS







          Could this be Khloe Kardashian's real father? Kris Jenner 'had an affair with Lionel Richie in the Eighties'
          
          Khloe looks just like Lionel's daughter Sofia
        








          'North has 200 pieces of clothing she's never worn and $50k diamond studs': Inside the extravagant lifestyle of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's little girl
          









          'It's a fresh start': Katie Price puts on united front with Kieran Hayler and baby Bunny... as she plans to do 'sexy photoshoots' again
          
          Well-polished front
        








          'Shut up before I shut you up': Snoop Dogg blasts Iggy Azalea in profanity filled rant... as her boyfriend accuses rapper of having a 'midlife crisis'
          









          'Amazed, delighted and a little shocked': Chris Hoy announces his wife Sarra Kemp has given birth to their first child 11 weeks early 
          
          Proud first-time parents 
        








          TOWIE's Ferne McCann flashes her bra in sheer top as she sports metallic jeans while rival Chloe Sims rocks leather and lace 
          
          She certainly isn't shy
        








          That's not very regal! Vicky Pattison flashes her garter belt as she dresses like royalty for Geordie Shore Series 9 party
          
          They're not often ladylike
        








          'Carrie was a w****!' Chris Noth gives his take on Sex And The City's famed Bradshaw
          
          Their relationship was one of the most avidly watched in TV history
        








          'It wasn't out of desire': Benedict Cumberbatch talks about sexual experimentation at his all-boys boarding school
          
          Talks equal rights and being gay in Hollywood 
        








          Make-up free Coleen Rooney catches the eye in bizarre leggings and pink hoodie as she steps out to run errands
          
          Failed to impress in her bright workout gear
        











          How to get X Factor abs: The secrets of Fleur East's sensational six-pack 
          
          The 26-year-old from East London hits the gym five times a week
        








          Trouble in the kitchen! Taylor Swift takes on Jamie Oliver in charity bake off as part of Stand Up To Cancer
          
          Known for dishing up the dirt on her former flames
        








          Emerald in the rough! Nicole Richie shines in elegant green blouse... but misses the mark with purple hair as she steps out in NYC
          
          Promoting her TV show
        








          What do you get the man who has everything? Amal 'buys George Clooney handmade Venetian cocktail glasses' as post-wedding gift
          









          Batman Returns! Ben Affleck set to star in Justice League... as The Rock gets his own superhero franchise 
          
          Hunk will return in 2017 as the caped crusader 
        








          'I've discovered I don't suck at being a dad': Brad Pitt talks to Details about fatherhood and how he was a wild child himself as he poses in a forest
          









          So everyone's happy? Amber Rose drapes herself over hunky underwear model as Wiz Khalifa 'goes on a date' with Sara Dastjani
          









          The good, the bad and the pretty! Cowboy Liam Hemsworth gets his make-up done while riding a horse on set of western with Woody Harrelson 
          









          Showing him what he's missing! Paula Patton sizzles in leather biker attire amid reports Robin Thicke threw a 'divorce party'
          









          Is it 'LOVE'? Jennifer Lawrence steps out with same romantic badge boyfriend Chris Martin is always seen wearing 
          
          Seen wearing at LAX Airport on Tuesday night
        











          'Kate Moss and Cara Delevingne were explosive' Mario Testino and Christopher Bailey take us behind the scenes on steamy My Burberry shoot
          









          Well he IS Mr Aniston! Justin Theroux rocks a perfectly chic man bag as he heads out and about in New York
          
          Engaged to the ever-chic Jennifer Aniston
        








          EXCLUSIVE: 'I eat better now. Kieran makes delicious salads for me': Katie Price opts for a healthy life as she is set to release 'sexy but tasteful' calendar
          









          She looks BANG-ing: Beyoncé wears contrasting prints as she shows off short fringe once again to visit arts centre with Jay Z
          
          Headed to South London
        








          Beyonce's hair hits and misses: As Queen Bey's new fringe divides opinion FEMAIL look's back at Mrs Carter's many styles
          
          From fro to blonde to bob
        








          Miranda Kerr displays taut tummy in white crop top as she promotes Wonderbra campaign in South Korea
          
          She used to be a Victoria's Secret model
        








          Lydia Bright is dressed to impress during TOWIE filming in smart white blazer and leather mini dress
          
          But, of course, the heels were Essex white
        








          'They're both having fun': Harry Styles, 20, 'met new girlfriend Erin Foster, 32, through ex-lover Kimberly Stewart, 35' 
          
          A 12 year age gap
        








          TOWIE's Lewis Bloor looks delighted to spend time with newcomer George Harrison as they share a tender embrace in a park... days after his split from Lauren Pope
          









          Offering up pearls of wisdom? Rylan Clark returns to The X Factor house as he gives advice to the new contestants
          
          A long-awaited return 
        








          'Are your isobars tightly packed?': BBC Breakfast presenter Bill Turnbull stuns viewers by teasing weather forecaster over her figure-hugging dress
          









          Police are called TWICE to Justin Bieber's party due to complaints
          
          Law enforcement were called twice during the same night to the pop idol's Beverly Hills condo
        








          'I was just in a naked frame of mind!': Jennifer Garner reveals she often streaked during her wild college years
          
          Known as a conservative parent nowadays
        








          Check it out! Nicole Scherzinger looks relaxed in pyjama-style outfit as she arrives at London recording studio
          
          Had a busy night promoting new album
        








          Jameela Jamil calls for body confidence education to be on national curriculum saying, 'you cannot measure your self-worth with a weighing scale'
          









          Fancy a brew? Russell Brand resembles Lady Gaga as he steps out with a very British teacup while out in New York
          
          Cross-pond inspiration
        








          Selfie break! Emma Stone looks like a breath of fresh air in white sleeveless dress as she stops for snap with fan on way to morning show
          
          Promoting her new film
        








          May the Force be with you! Lady Gaga dons Jedi-style robe and curly wig as she arrives in London ahead of UK tour
          
          Rocked a Star Wars vibe when she arrived 
        








          Booty-ful! Jessie J gives Beyoncé a run for her money as she twerks up a storm in striking fringed shorts at album launch gig
          









          Pharrell Williams teams his signature hat with a bubblegum pink coat and hint of guy-liner as he steps out in Paris 
          
          Has taken his wardrobe in a whole new direction
        








          Kendra Wilkinson 'reconsiders decision to stay with Hank Baskett' after recordings emerge of him and transgender model
          









          From big-mouthed Katie Hopkins to fame-hungry Luisa Zissman: Ten years of the brilliant, bitchy and bonkers women of The Apprentice
          









          FEMAIL tries out London's first naked yoga class: Nude workout is supposed to boost self-esteem and banish hang-ups
          
          Originated in New York
        








          Business as usual: Amal Clooney looks sharp for meeting with Greek Prime Minister as she continues to advise on historical structures
          
          A woman to look up to
        








          'Oops, I'm sorry': Bono apologises for U2 album being automatically added to Apple iTunes libraries after iPhone 6 launch
          
          Caused a huge fuss
        








          It's the battle of the style queens! Letizia and Maxima go head to head for the fashion crown as the Spanish royals arrive to begin a tour of the Netherlands 
          









          She's still his Star Girl: Loved-up Ellie Goulding and McBusted's Dougie Poynter enjoy night out together 
          
          Anything could happen!
        








          'I make skirts that look good on everyone': Gene Simmons' curvy daughter Sophie, 22, launches fashion line for women of all sizes 
          









          Roxanne Pallett is a far cry from her former Emmerdale self as she films VERY racy topless scene for horror flick
          
          Avert your eyes, Jo Sugden fans!
        








          Former DJ Simon Hirst makes first public appearance after gender reassignment - and now there's a Facebook petition to get her back on the radio
          









          Guilty as charged: Nicole Scherzinger steals the show in head-to-toe stripes during album showcase
          
          Captivated the audience with more than her voice
        








          Britney Spears and Pharrell Williams audition for unlikely roles in Stand Up To Cancer's spoof biopic Andy Murray: The Movie
          
          Supporting charity
        








          Princess Beatrice steps out for a spot of shopping with pals wearing trendy trainers and £1,200 Chloe handbag
          
          Seen in Notting Hill
        








          Michelle Keegan: 'Christmas is my favourite time of year so I couldn't wait to get back in the design room' Actress unveils festive Lipsy collection
          









          Wasn't Harry Styles invited? Erin Foster takes a night off from rumoured One Direction boyfriend to go out with her sister
          
          Out without her toyboy
        








          'There won't be any Tudor romps': Damian Lewis insists BBC drama Wolf Hall will be a loyal adaptation as he responds to  Hilary Mantel's  plea
          









          Michael Le Vell gets into a spot of car trouble while filming scenes for Coronation Street... as it is claimed the soap's stars are locked in 'pay dispute'
          









          Heidi Klum gets dunked on Ellen... but remains coy when asked about boyfriend Vito Schnabel 
          
          Been dating toyboy Vito Schnabel since February
        








          Sinfully sexy! Eva Green puts on a leggy display in ravishing red gown as she graces the cover of new Campari calendar
          
          Leading lady 
        








          Do You Think I'm Flexy? Rod Stewart, 69, shows off his fitness prowess as he squats during fun night out with wife Penny Lancaster
          
          Didn't need to get shorter
        








          Well, it is the city of love! Robert Pattinson and new girlfriend FKA twigs take their budding romance to Paris  
          
          Spotted arriving in the City of Love
        








          'I'm going to miss riding this big f****** wiener! Miley Cyrus mourns loss of her signature hot dog prop as she apologises to fans for feeling 's*****'
          









          'M is for Miley!': Zoe Kravitz psychs herself up for Cyrus gig as she prepares to perform as Bangerz Tour opening act 
          
          In band Lolawolf
        








          Joan Collins, 81, cuts a glamorous figure in white dress and jacket as she locks arms with husband Percy Gibson, 48, after dinner
          
          Out in West Hollywood
        








          Jade Jagger shows off her post-pregnancy figure while mingling with social elite at her mother Bianca's star-studded charity party
          









          Victoria's Secret model Lily Donaldson draws attention to her cleavage as she dons plunging floaty gown at Vogue fashion bash
          
          British beauty
        








          Easy Rider David Beckham revs his engine as he bikes through the Highlands in teaser clip for Guy Ritchie-directed whiskey advert 
          









          Make-up free Busy Philipps injects a sexy twist to her workout gear as she displays incredible post-baby figure in leather-look leggings
          









          Denise Van Outen and boyfriend Eddie Boxshall make a rare joint appearance at OBE party 
          
          The couple put on a rare public display of affection
        








          Craving something sweet! Pixie Lott tucks into a cheeky treat after showcasing her lithe legs in tartan-print dress at OBE party
          
          Partied with Denise
        








          The Only Way Is Heartbreak: Elliott Wright and Chloe Sims discuss their future ahead of shock split on TOWIE  
          
          We know it's coming!
        








          Tamara Ecclestone reveals that lathering up with stretch mark cream, not too many heavy nights and FIFTY lip glosses is what keeps her looking glam
          









          It's a mystery! Johnny Depp 'prompts chaos' on set of new thriller Mortdecai after 'failing to turn up for re-shoots' 
          
          M.I.A from studio in Buckinghamshire
        








          One Di-RETCH-tion: Fans erect a shrine in honour of Harry Styles' vomit on Los Angeles freeway
          
          The Directioners take it too far once again...
        








          'You freak!' Kelly Osbourne speaks her mind about  Miranda Kerr and Iggy Azalea's fashion choices as she call calls  Gabi Grecko 'brave'
          









          Jennifer Lawrence attempts to go incognito as she jets back to LA after dazzling on the red carpet in plunging tuxedo dress at London Film Festival
          









          She's so transparent! Julianne Hough cuts a daring figure in sheer lace dress at Hollywood photo event
          
          Guest star at Samsung Electronics event
        








          Camilla's tribute to her tragic brother: The Duchess of Cornwall unveils a memorial to Mark Shand  at his old primary school
          
          Visited Kent village
        








          What happened to Agy? Agyness Deyn transforms from high-fashion model to girl next door actress at Electricity screening
          
          From It to Average 
        








          Jennifer Hudson steals the show in leather mini skirt and over-the-knee boots as she performs at Fulfillment gala
          
          Performed a series of her hits at the glitzy event
        








          Are these the world's weirdest royal sculptures? Queen Letizia and King Felipe are immortalised in wax... but look NOTHING like the originals
          









          Supermodel chic: Cindy Crawford dresses down in jeans and white tee to run her daily errands
          
          Stepped out without make-up to run errands 
        








          Do Wolverines age? Sprightly Hugh Jackman celebrates birthday by breaking rigorous diet with a healthy serving of chocolate cake
          
          Worth a cheat meal!
        








          'It's the worst Strictly ever': Axed professional dancer James Jordan slams 'struggling' dance contest  
          
          'Struggling' without him and Sir Bruce Forsyth
        








          Strictly sleaze: How romantic elegance gave way to raunchy routines and ever more skimpy outfits 
          
          The show is radically altered from 2004
        








          Daisy Duke overalls! Cara Santana makes a new fashion statement as she shows off her lean legs during coffee run with boyfriend Jesse Metcalfe
          









          Surf's up! Supermodel Gisele kisses hunky man and wears plunging leotard to ride the waves in new Chanel No. 5 perfume advert
          
          Directed by Luhrmann
        








          Kanye's sure got a type! Amber Rose's bare derriere distracts from her new hairdo as she pulls a Kim Kardashian
          
          Copying Kim's infamous belfie
        








          Defiant Jennifer Lopez shows off her toned legs in a pair of thigh-skimming tailored shorts and lace-up stilettos after humiliating AMAs snub
          









          Richard Madeley calls police over trolls' threats to rape daughter Chloe after wife Judy Finnigan comments on rapist footballer Ched Evans earlier in week
          









          Amanda Bynes 'likely to be in involuntary confinement for up to a year' after she remains in psychiatric care 
          
          Will not be released into the care of her parents
        








          JIM SHELLEY: The biggest buffoons in business: The 10th year of The Apprentice promises to be as great, and as awful, as ever
          
          And so it begins...
        








          It's time for Lady Karren to tell Lord Sugar: 'You're fired': CHRISTOPHER STEVENS reviews last night's TV
          
          The Apprentice is back on the screens
        








          'He is the first man that I have dated who cries when I sing': Lady Gaga gushes about her 'supportive' boyfriend Taylor Kinney
          
          Still smitten
        








          Make-up free Kirsten Dunst shows off the fruits of her labour in the gym as she slips into tight workout leggings and a motif tee
          
          Organic living advocate
        








          Stylish exit! Olivia Munn showcases her slender legs in denim shorts and slogan jumper as she jets out of LAX
          
          Trendsetting jetsetter
        








          Eyes on the prize: Emma Stone looks elegant in a monochrome ensemble as she poses with a giant Oscar at special screening of Birdman 
          









          Are we in London yet? Blue Ivy peeks out from under pink blanket as Beyoncé and Jay Z push her along in stroller
          
          It was probably the little tot's first ride on a train
        








          Run this town! Jay Z and Beyonce sport matching styles as they leave luxury private venue The Arts Club in London's Mayfair
          









          'We try not to ever be separated more than seven days': Olivia Palermo reveals how she keeps her marriage alive as she shows off a softer side in shoot
          









          Victoria Beckham shares touching photo of her cuddling a baby on her first UN Goodwill Ambassador trip to Soweto
          
          Designer took to Twitter 
        








          The rise and rise of Kylie Jenner: How the youngest Kardashian is now the MOST influential - and already a millionaire at 17
          
          Surpassed Kim!
        








          Hello Boys! Miranda Kerr poses for new Wonderbra campaign in a navy push-up bra and matching lacy knickers
          
          She is not scared to flaunt her incredible body
        








          Nothing says love like lobster! Kylie Jenner enjoys dinner at Beverly Hills seafood restaurant with 'boyfriend' Tyga 
          
          Has the Jenner success tamed the Tiger?
        








          Just rolled out of bed? Kendall Jenner flashes her legs under what appears to be a dressing gown for coffee with Jaden Smith
          
          'Just friends'
        








          Paris Hilton dresses to impress in a chic monochrome ensemble... and puts her pampered pooch Prince in a frilly tutu
          
          Calls him her 'baby love'
        








          Taking a walk on the wild side! Nicky Hilton teams a striking leopard-print minidress with a chic felt fedora as she hits the shops
          
          No dog-accessory?
        








          How GRAHAM NORTON refused £5m and learnt no star is irreplaceable
          
          Graham Norton may have appeared to want every job Jonathan Ross held at the BBC
        








          She's got some front! Lauren Goodger defies weather to go coat-free in slinky top for party with boxer David Haye   
          
          Everyone else agreed it was very nippy outside
        








          He's changed his tune! Robin Thicke 'throws divorce party with Leonardo DiCaprio' after Paula Patton files to end nine-year marriage
          
          He's FINALLY given up
        








          How to get the perfect smokey eye: Binky Felstead shows you how to recreate the come-to-bed eyes seen on her sexy calendar shoot
          









          The romance is off to a good start, then! Made In Chelsea's Lucy Watson leaves party with new boyfriend Oliver Proudlock - hours after confirming relationship
          









          'G'bye Dubai, G'day Oz': Ronnie Wood jets into Adelaide ahead of Rolling Stones tour which was postponed due to death of Jaggers girlfriend L'Wren Scott
          









          'I'll always be there for you': Teresa Giudice is 'recording videos for her daughters to watch while she is in prison'
          
          About to serve 15 months for fraud
        








          Dannii Minogue spends the day in country town with X Factor Australia trio Brothers 3...after Reigan Derry jokes that Tayzan has 'had a crack' at the popstar 
          









          Cate Blanchett kisses Ian McKellan's bloodied face as striking new Hobbit poster is released for The Battle of the Five Armies
          
          Return to Middle Earth
        








          She's still got it! Carmen Electra, 42, bares midriff in cropped top while attending fashion show in downtown Los Angeles
          
          Not dressing her age
        








          Not long now! Heavily pregnant Zoe Saldana opts for casual maternity wear during lunch date with husband Marco Perego 
          
          Twins ahead!
        








          Nesting time! Pregnant Rachel Bilson reveals her bump as she picks up supplies at the grocery store
          
          Former O.C. star is just about ready to pop!
        








          SARAH VINE: Judy's right. Some rapes ARE worse than others 
          
          Evans, whose imminent release has prompted controversy, sounds like a sordid individual
        








          'Beach bum!' Zoe Kravitz takes time out in a tiny bikini ahead of first Australian gig supporting Miley Cyrus
          
          Lenny's daughter is breaking into music
        








          It's the only way to fly! Diva Miley Cyrus stocks up for her one-and-a-half hour flight with bags of food, drinks and ice, while airport staff roll out the red carpet
          









          What a trooper! Denise Richards, 43, shows off her toned figure in all-back workout gear as she heads to another gym session
          
          Looked in ship-shape
        








          The anti-selfie! Tallulah Willis posts a bikini snap... as she munches a plate of fries while holding a cigarette
          
          Demi and Bruce's girl poses post-rehab
        








          SPOILER ALERT: 'You probably should have won': Lord Sugar gets frustrated with Team Summit as he makes his first firing on The Apprentice
          









          From Gossip Girl to guitar girl! Leighton Meester continues her transformation from preppy Park Lane princess to music artist at New York gig
          









          PECS appeal! TOWIE's Dan Osborne strips down to some VERY snug swimwear for the latest cover of Attitude Magazine
          
          He's known for his body
        








          Mummy's little mini-me! Elizabeth Berkley and her adorable son Sky rock matching grey and black outfits in Los Angeles
          
          been Saved By The Bell 
        








          'It's quite sweet to watch': The X Factor's Jake Quickenden says romance may be on the cards for Stevi Ritchie and Chloe-Jasmine Whichello
          









          Making everyone green with envy! Rosie Huntington-Whiteley looks sensational in one shoulder cut-out gown for new Coca-Cola Life campaign 
          









          She'll be ticketed off! Newly-single Kelly Brook goes shopping in Los Angeles...and bags herself a parking ticket
          
          Model didn't look too pleased about her ticket
        








          Girls just want to sell books! Lena Dunham wears little black dress and white jacket to signing in Los Angeles
          
          Jetted to Hollywood to sign her book
        








          Would YOU spend £69,000 on a Louis Vuitton punch bag? Karl Lagerfeld designs luxury leather boxing range for the fashionable fighter
          
          Comes with LV gloves
        








          Sexy starts at the big 5-0! Terri Hatcher and Kathy Griffin steam up the red carpet and leave the under forties in their wake
          
          50 is the new 30
        
























Head Start to Home Cooked
Get Recipes



 more



































	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location
Villa Holidays


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 
















