 Ebola Supplies Sit as Airlines Cancel Flights to Countries With Infection Ebola Supplies Sit as Airlines Cancel Flights to Countries With Infection







Home
Movies
Humor
Arts
Music
Blog
Join
Contact

Contribute




Register an AccountSign Up and Contribute!



Username




E-mail



A password will be e-mailed to you.









Have an Account?Login Using This Form



Username



Password


 Remember Me




 










 
















Home
World
U.S.
Business
Technology
Entertainment
Sports
Science

Science (Alternative)


Health

Health (Alternative)


GLV TEAM
Subscribe





Breaking News!
Politics
Political Left
Political Right
Religion
Nevada
Las Vegas
Guardian in print













Ebola Supplies Sit as Airlines Cancel Flights to Countries With Infection 


Added by Beth Balen on September 8, 2014.Saved under Ebola Virus, HealthTags: ebola, spot 




Ebola supplies are in demand in disease-stricken areas of West Africa, but shipments are backlogged, quarantined and delayed as supply ships are turned away and airlines cancel flights to the region. Brussels Airlines reported an 80-ton backlog of supplies at its hub airport and is considering adding charter flights, even though it has now resumed regular service after three days without operations. British Airways has suspended service to Liberia and Sierra Leone until next year. Air France-KLM has cancelled flights. According to cargo chief Herman Hoornaert, Brussels Airline is almost the only airline still operating to Freetown and Monrovia. Shipping lines are also refusing to dock at the countries’ ports.
Medical supplies, personal protective equipment and food are all in short supply with transportation shutdowns. Workers are reportedly making their own surgical face masks and gowns out of other material. Finding supplies is not the problem, as donations plentiful. However, the transportation shutdowns are causing incidents such as seen at JFK airport in New York, where nine pallets of desperately needed personal protective equipment sat for more than two weeks. Dr. David Nubarro, Senior U.N. Coordinator for Ebola, says isolating the affected countries complicates the response. He says the use of adequate precautions will avoid risk of infection.
Neighboring countries are turning away container ships filled with supplies. Ships that serve countries hit by Ebola are being turned away from disease-free neighboring countries, disrupting schedules and deliveries. Maersk Line, one of the leading shipping companies in West Africa, has delisted ports from its schedule due to local bans on ships that have called in any Ebola-affected country. Africa Mercy, the world’s largest charity hospital ship, is sitting off the Canary Islands while debating whether to proceed with a trip to the Republic of Benin, which is adjacent to Nigeria, where 15 people have contracted the disease.
According to the United Nations (U.N.), Ebola has killed 1,900 people and is the largest epidemic that has been seen in the 40-year history of the disease. As the virus continues to spread across West Africa, the U.N. reports that there are now 3,500 confirmed cases. A separate outbreak has also infected 53 patients and killed 31 in a remote part of Congo in Central Africa, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
In addition to a shortage of medical supplies, the virus has placed the region’s food production and delivery at risk. Quarantine zones and restrictions on travel have led to panic buying, food shortages and price increases that place food completely out of the reach of many households, according to U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization’s (FAO) Vincent Martin. Travel restrictions are also causing labor shortages on farms, resulting in lost crops as farmers and migrant laborers are unable to get to the fields.
The U.N. says that an estimated 1.3 million people in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea will need help obtaining food in the coming months. WHO is asking that countries lift their border closures to allow food and medical supplies to reach the people who need them. Guinea and Liberia borders remain closed, but last week Ivory Coast said it would be allowing supplies in through a humanitarian corridor.
As supplies sit due to travel restrictions from all avenues, disaster organizations such as Airlink are appealing to companies to help move the medical supplies to Ebola-affected countries. Yesterday President Obama said that the U.S. military will begin aiding in the response to provide equipment and other assistance.
By Beth A. Balen
Sources:
Thai Shipper
New York Daily News
Denver Post
Business Insider
Time
The Loadstar
NPR
Washington Post
Humanitarian at MIT












 








2 Responses to Ebola Supplies Sit as Airlines Cancel Flights to Countries With Infection 





 

Richard Davis October 5, 2014 at 5:32 pm


Airlines will either have to cancel flights to West Africa or risk losing most of their business, as anybody can understand that somebody can change planes in a third country. 
A “Berlin Airlift” type of thing is needed. In fact, the US will be a risk of having service cut to many countries if its own carriers do not stop service to West African. The US government is too Politically Correct to stop flights to there. Israel, no. But Obama is ever the politician, even if it kills us all.
Reply






 

Jo Kleeb September 10, 2014 at 6:01 am


We need ships that remain anchored safely offshore, that can airdrop supplies in using helicopters.
Reply




Your Thoughts? Cancel reply





    




 


Top Posts & Pages



Fibromyalgia Mystery Finally Solved! 



Nick Cannon Speaks About Split From Mariah Carey 



 


 Recent Posts 




 


 


Posts


Latest
Popular
Comments





 Invisibility Cloak Breakthrough by Scientists at University of Rochester
by Charles Bordeau - No Comment


 Mark Driscoll and Mars Hill Church Part Ways
by James Turnage - No Comment


 Kristen Stewart Judges Americans and Sides With Terrorists
by Kristi Cereska - No Comment






 Fibromyalgia Mystery Finally Solved!
by Rebecca Savastio - 2,260 Comments


 Nelson Mandela Life Support Shut Down as Respected Humanitarian Dies Age 94? (UPDATE)
by Michael Smith - 645 Comments


 Update: Severe Earthquake Strikes Australia / Correction – New Zealand
by Tom Ukinski - 614 Comments





jbzoller: Medtronic Neurostimulator Devices Offer Hope for Chronic Pain [Video]Noel Bullard: How Close Are Humans to Immortality?Doug: Grand Theft Auto Drives 8 Year Old to Murder His Grandmother 




 

 







The mission of Guardian Liberty Voice is to report on all areas of news from a boldly inclusive platform, giving our readers a uniquely original account of what is happening in the world, while fostering a community environment where writers are supported as they learn to become self-sufficient Entrepreneurs. Our success is measured by our ability to empower citizen journalists with both confidence and liberty to speak their minds and the economic freedom to enhance the quality of their lives.












Home 
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Legal
SiteMap
About Us
Style & Submission Guidelines

RSS 
↑
Guardian Liberty Voice 


 
Guardian Liberty Voice  

Log in -

Powered by Frackle Media  -































Subscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.













  




