Scientists grapple with ethics in rush to release Ebola vaccinesScientists grapple with ethics in rush to release Ebola vaccines
















We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy.


























Thomson Reuters Foundation








 LOGIN|SUBSCRIBE


						DONATE

					
















News
Trustlaw
Excellence in Journalism
Services
Jobs Market
About Us

View full desktop version
















Ebola patient at Emory University Hospital says he's recovering
Tropical Storm Ana close to hurricane status as it nears Hawaii
EPA approval of Dow herbicide violates law, critics charge
Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold
U.S. hits targets around Kobani for humanitarian purposes -Allen





FIND US ON




























								
									U.S. Supreme Court blocks Texas abortion restrictions

								
							









									
										Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold

									
								









									
										Ethiopia's fast-growing capital aims to become greener and cleaner

									
								









									
										Freak Nepal blizzards kill at least 20, including hikers, ...

									
								









									
										Syrian Kurds indicating targets as U.S. steps up Kobani strikes

									
								









									
										Economists urge Modi not to squeeze job scheme for rural poor

									
								









									
										Female students beaten, abused by Sudan security-rights group

									
								









									
										UN refugee chief says EU should let in more Syrian refugees

									
								









									
										Sri Lanka bans foreigners from old war zone amid UN probe

									
								









									
										Libyan army, residents battle Islamist militants in Benghazi

									
								









									
										Bomb training vital as Kurds retake Islamic State ground in Iraq

									
								









									
										Can the world produce enough food for 2 bln more people?

									
								









									
										Houthi rebels take over Yemen's Hodeidah port -residents

									
								









									
										Brazil election candidates spar over corruption, nepotism

									
								









									
										Global climate deal should be legally binding in parts: US

									
								









									
										Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding

									
								









									
										Nigerians demand release of 200 kidnapped schoolgirls

									
								









									
										WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa

									
								









									
										Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola

									
								









									
										Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response

									
								









									
										Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest 

									
								









									
										Away from Kobani, Syria's other civil war rages on

									
								









									
										I’ve rarely been so terrified 

									
								









									
										WHO may declare Nigeria and Senegal Ebola-free within days

									
								









									
										Investigative journalism's "golden age" faces surveillance threat

									
								









									
										UK firms must report efforts to end slavery in supply chains 

									
								










Scientists grapple with ethics in rush to release Ebola vaccines
Source: Reuters - Mon, 29 Sep 2014 07:58 GMT

Author: Reuters












								More on:

																							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    	Health and Disease
							    							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    
						    

Pedestrians walk past a mural showing the symptoms of the Ebola virus in Monrovia, Liberia, September 26, 2014. REUTERS/James Giahyue




















* Ebola emergency demands speed, more risk in vaccine tests
* Vaccines will be evaluated at same time as being deployed
* Issues of placebos and control groups need consideration
* WHO sees small-scale vaccine use in W. Africa by Jan 2015
By Kate Kelland, Health and Science Correspondent
LONDON, Sept 28 (Reuters) - Normally it takes years to prove a new vaccine is both safe and effective before it can be used in the field. But with hundreds of people dying a day in the worst ever outbreak of Ebola, there is no time to wait.
In an effort to save lives, health authorities are determined to roll out potential vaccines within months, dispensing with some of the usual testing, and raising unprecedented ethical and practical questions.
"Nobody knows yet how we will do it. There are lots of tough real-world deployment issues and nobody has the full answers yet," said Adrian Hill, who is conducting safety trials on healthy volunteers of an experimental Ebola shot developed by GlaxoSmithKline.
Hill, a professor and director at the Jenner Institute at Britain's University of Oxford, says that if his results show no adverse side-effects, GSK's new shot could used in people in West Africa by the end of this year.
Even if a drug is shown to be safe, it takes longer to prove it is effective - time that is simply not available when cases of Ebola infection are doubling every few weeks and projected by the World Health Organization to reach 20,000 by November.
Among questions that scientists are grappling with: should an unproven vaccine be given to everybody, or just a few? Should it be offered to healthcare workers first? The young before the old? Should it be used first in Liberia where Ebola is spreading fastest, or Guinea where it is closer to being under control?
Should people be told to assume it will protect them from Ebola? Or should they take all the protective measures they would if they hadn't been vaccinated? And if so, how will anyone know whether the vaccine works?
GSK is one of several drug firms that have either started or announced plans for human trials of candidate Ebola vaccines. Others include Johnson & Johnson, NewLink, Inovio Pharmaceuticals and Profectus Biosciences.
The WHO says it hopes to see small-scale use of the first experimental Ebola vaccines in the West Africa outbreak by January next year.
It has convened vaccine specialists, epidemiologists, pharmaceutical companies and ethicists, for a meeting on Monday and Tuesday to discuss the moral and practical issues.
"Normally safety is the absolutely paramount thing when you're developing a new vaccine, but this time we're going to have to take more risks," said Brian Greenwood, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine who will take part in the WHO-led meeting.
"Quite how we do that, and what risks we take, hasn't really been thought through yet. That's what people are trying to figure out."

TWO THINGS AT THE SAME TIME
The chaos caused by the epidemic itself makes it even more difficult to deploy and track use of a new vaccine, said Hill.
"You're trying to do two things at the same time: you're trying to evaluate a vaccine and deploy it - when normally you would evaluate the vaccine first, by doing a randomised double blind controlled trial, and then you'd deploy it if it was shown to be safe and effective."
Because Ebola virus is so deadly, those who receive a trial vaccine must be told to take all other precautions and protect themselves fully. This could make it harder for researchers to decipher whether the protective clothing and safety protocols, or the new vaccine, is what kept them safe.
Normally researchers testing a vaccine would give some volunteers a placebo, or dummy, to create a "control" group to compare against those who get the real drug. That seems unthinkable in a situation where disease with a death rate of up to 90 percent is raging through villages.
"Would it be ethical to do a trial where some people don't get the vaccine because they are in the control group? Most people think it wouldn't be - especially if you have reasonable evidence that the vaccine might work," said Hill.
Jeremy Farrar, an infectious diseases expert and director of the Wellcome Trust medical charity, said limited supplies of any candidate vaccine could result in a form of natural control group being formed anyway. Researchers can compare populations where the vaccine is available with those where it isn't.
GSK has said it is aiming to have 10,000 doses of its experimental shot by the end of the year, while Canada has given 800 vials of the NewLink candidate vaccine to the WHO, expected to yield at least 1,500 doses.
Most experts interviewed by Reuters favour the idea of the first doses going to frontline healthcare workers, since their exposure to risk is so high. Researchers could then compare infection rates among health workers who receive the vaccine to those working in regions still waiting for it.
Peter Piot, a co-discoverer of the Ebola virus in 1976 and now director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine said that however complicated the ethics, reverting to the traditional years-long process of testing vaccines, and withholding them from West Africa until then, is not an option.
"It may be that without a vaccine, we can't really stop this epidemic," he said. (Reporting by Kate Kelland; Editing by Peter Graff)








We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




























										
										Ebola outbreak in West Africa

















SPOTLIGHT: Ebola outbreak in West Africa





Europe urged to end plight of 600,000 ghost people





FACTBOX: How does one end up stateless in Europe?





SPOTLIGHT: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 





Girls at risk as Bangladesh mulls lowering age of marriage







			TOPICAL CONTENT

		









		                			
			                														Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola
										
									
								






		                			
			                														WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa
										
									
								








		LATEST SLIDESHOW

	








5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls




















Nearly one in five adolescent girls is out of school. That’s 65 mln girls worldwide.
Here are 5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls







					FEATURED JOBS

				







	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Spain, France and North Africa

	                


						
												
												
												
												
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 25 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Salary: TBD  | Location:  Spain

					




	                	
	                	Climate Resilience Editor/Project Manager

	                


						
												
												
												
												
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 01 November 2014  | Job type: Contract  | Salary: TBD

					




	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Latin America 

	                


						
												
												
												
						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 31 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Location:  Argentina

					


































Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy


Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility



RSS
Newsletters
Turn off mobile site switching







Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation





Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility










View full desktop version


Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
























