Malta bars ship carrying suspected Ebola patient - timesofmalta.comMalta bars ship carrying suspected Ebola patient - timesofmalta.com



Advert

 



Follow us:












Wednesday, October 15, 2014
 26°C
[Forecast]
 


Sign in or
Create your Account 
Sign in


Use your timesofmalta.com account to login:
 
Email:  



Password: 




 

Create your Account
Need help signing in?















Times of malta home

Advert

 







Premium articles
Popular stories
The Zone
Digital Archive
e-Paper
Subscribe to Premium


News

National
World
Social & Personal
Education
Interview
Environment
Gozo
Pictures
Religion
Videos
Odd News


Sport

Football
Formula 1
Basketball
Waterpolo
Horse Racing
Shooting
Rugby
Tennis
Athletics


Business

News
International
Market Analysis
Comment
Technology
Features
Consumer Affairs


Comment

Editorial
Opinion
Letters
Blogs
Cartoons
Timestalk


Life

Health & Fitness
Arts & Entertainment
Features
Food & Drink
Fashion & Beauty
Books
Homes
Travel
Motoring


Classifieds

Property For Sale
Property Wanted
To Let
Vehicles For Sale
Situations Vacant
For Sale
More »


Careers

Finance and Legal
Management
IT and Engineering


Services

Digital Archive
e-Paper
Book Store
Bonds
Shares
SMS Alert
Sudoku
Weather
Webcam
Letters to the editor


































Print
Email






Thursday, September 18, 2014, 16:07 
 by Herman Grech 
Malta bars ship carrying suspected Ebola patient


 

The position of the ship in mid-afternoon. - Marine Traffic.com 

A ship carrying at least one crew member suspected to have the deadly Ebola virus has been barred from entering Malta's harbours, Prime Minister Joseph Muscat revealed this afternoon.
The patient was later taken off the ship in Sicily, nearly 24 hours after the alarm was raised.
The ship had been travelling from Guinea to Ukraine when it requested assistance from the Maltese authorities last night.
The government said a crew member, a Filipino national, is suffering from symptoms related to the virus which has plagued Western Africa. There are indications of at least one other suspected case on board, but a government spokesman said the ship continued on its voyage to Ukraine after offloading its crew member in Sicily.
“Our decision is morally and legally correct,” Dr Muscat told an informal news conference at Auberge de Castille.
The case developed at 8pm when the ship captain called the Maltese port authorities for medical assistance. The Hong Kong registered merchant vessel Western Copenhagen was located 40 miles from Sicily, and 83 miles from Malta.
It was not clear at first what medical attention was needed but the Maltese authorities realised that the patient’s symptoms could relate to Ebola.


We can't say if captain is understating or overstating the issue
- Prime Minister

The Armed Forces shadowed the ship for hours, which is now close to Sicilian ports.
“We are lacking information. We can't say if the captain is understating or overstating the issue,” Dr Muscat said.
The patient has been given medication, including antibiotics. 
Dr Muscat explained that a decision to stop the ship from entering Maltese waters was taken following consultation with all the authorities, including the Attorney General.
International conventions state that countries are obliged to help individuals in need of assistance, but they also specify exceptions if the country’s health systems or national security could be breached.
“It could be a false alarm, but we are morally correct to take this decision because we cannot endanger our health system, especially when we don’t know the magnitude of the problem,” Dr Muscat said.
As a precaution, the hospital had already upgraded its high-security isolation room to cater for any potential Ebola cases.
The virus spreads by contact with infected blood and bodily fluids.
Hospitals and clinics in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the countries hit hardest by the outbreak, are overwhelmed by what the World Health Organisation is calling the deadliest Ebola outbreak in history.
The virus has killed at least 2,400 people, and thousands more are infected. Cases have also been reported in Nigeria and Senegal.
 
















Print
Email




« Car overturns in Marsa
Updated - MEP presses commissioner-designate to change rules on migration »





Advert

 



Comments are submitted under the express understanding and condition that the editor may, and is authorised to,
disclose any/all of the above personal information to any person or entity requesting the information for the
purposes of legal action on grounds that such person or entity is aggrieved by any comment so submitted.

At this time your comment will not be displayed immediately upon posting. Please allow some time for your comment to
be moderated before it is displayed.

For more details please see our Comments Policy 

Comments not loading? We recommend using Google Chrome or Mozilla Firefox with javascript turned on.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Comments powered by Disqus



Advert

 


Similar Stories






Sep 19th, 00:01
Ship with an Ebola suspect is kept out




Crew member diagnosed with malaria – not... 



‘Ebola’ alert was malaria 



Ebola has spread by air travel  



Border staff told to keep watch for signs... 



Experts hunt for Ebola exposure in first... 






Popular Stories
 


Unpaid Enemalta bills lead to temporary...
Update 2 - 76-year-old Briton to be...
Watch in full - ‘I had a phobia of children’
Enemalta sells off its Petroleum Division
Woman who withdrew €46,000 from aunt's...
Updated: Young woman falls off balcony...
Enemalta deal delayed as China asks for...
Muscat ‘draws line’ with referendum U-turn
Bishops publish new policy on gays




The Strickland Foundation








Advert

 



Email article




Your Email:





Recipient email:




Message:


















 

Times of Malta Premium
This article is part of our premium content.
You have exceeded your 10 free articles for this month.

A subscription is required to access Times of Malta content from overseas.
Register to get 10 free articles per month.

Subscribe to gain access to our premium content. Your subscription will also enable you to view all of the week's e-paper editions (both Times of Malta and The Sunday Times of Malta), view exclusive content, have full access to our newspaper archive to download editions from 1930 to today, and access the website in full from overseas. All of this will also be available to you from our tablet app.
Already have an account? Sign in here.



Subscribe to continue reading
 










Send us your story |
Terms & Conditions |
Privacy Policy |
Print Ad Rate |
Online Ad Rate |
Contact us |











Copyright © 2014 timesofmalta.com



Copyright © Allied Newspapers Ltd., printed on - 15-10-2014 - Printed content is for personal use only, and should not be distributed


 

 