How Many Doses of Experimental Ebola Drugs Do We Need? - Popular MechanicsHow Many Doses of Experimental Ebola Drugs Do We Need? - Popular Mechanics










/

/
Customer Service
/
Promotions
/
Blogs
/
Video

/

/
























Try: 
Hottest Cars Ever  / 
MINI Cooper  / 
Best Gadgets Ever










The Man Who Could Destroy The World
Yoshihiro Kawaoka caused a global uproar by re-creating history's deadliest flu virus. That might sound crazy. But when a real influenza...








The World's Weirdest Floating Structures
Most of the Earth is covered in water, so it only makes sense that we'd start utilizing that space. Here are 9 structures that you may be...








10 Best Off-Road Vehicles You Can Buy
Vehicles have gone soft lately as SUVs and pickups have prioritized fuel economy and comfort over all-out off-road capability. For most...









Automotive



Road Test
Auto News
DIY Auto
Motorcycles
Alternative Fuel
Tire Guide
Jay Leno's Garage
Saturday Mechanic YouTube Show


Featured Stories


Is My Car's "Black Box" Tracking Me?




Watch: Idiot (Hero?) Drives Off Tow Truck








Technology



Gadgets
Aviation
Engineering
Military
Digital Hollywood
DIY Tech
Your DIY Tech Workshop


Featured Stories


The 50 Best Manly Movie Quotes




The 100 Greatest Video Games of All Time








Science



Energy
Earth and the Environment
Space
Health
Mythbusters


Featured Stories


Why Build a Skyscraper in the Amazon?




We Got Wasted and Took a Scientist's Hangover Survey








Home How-To



Projects & Plans
Home Improvement
Tools Reviews
Skills
Lawn and Garden


Featured Stories


How to Carve a Pumpkin Like a Pro




10 Things You Didn't Know You Could Do With Coffee








Outdoors



Featured Stories


The Popular Mechanics Boot Selector




These Helmets Will Save the NFL from Itself




Recreation
Sports
Survival
This is My Job






DIY Central


















 
 













Homepage / Science / Health / Breakthroughs / How Many Doses of Experimental Ebola Drugs Do We Need?
















How Many Doses of Experimental Ebola Drugs Do We Need?
Tens of thousands of people need access to experimental drugs or vaccines, but supplies are unlikely to reach West Africa in time.







	By Kathryn Free








Email


Comments




Share


























August 20, 2014 1:32 PM



Text Size:
A . A . A









The worst-ever Ebola outbreak has climbed to an estimated 1229 deaths and 2240 infections, according to the World Health Organization's (WHO) August 19 report. Despite decades of research, a cure or vaccine remains elusive, though several experimental treatments are in various stages of testing. Last week, a WHO committee decided that it is ethical to give experimental drugs and vaccines to those infected with Ebola or at risk of contracting the disease, as long as the patients give informed consent. But two major questions remain: What treatments should health officials focus on, and how many doses will we need?

Through data analysis, epidemiologist Oliver Brady and two colleagues have estimated that health organizations and governments need to stockpile tens of thousands of doses of these treatments to battle the current outbreak. Their research, published in Nature today, also suggests that up to 30,000 people would have already qualified if these treatments had been available from the start, by conservative estimates. 

If the magnitude of this estimate is correct, it means that health experts need to quickly increase development and production to fairly distribute these investigational drugs. But it’s unlikely that this will happen in time to combat the current outbreak.


Promising Candidates


For the first time ever, scientists have several candidates for Ebola treatments and vaccines. Many have been shown to be effective in primates. However, none have been tested in humans. So far the WHO is looking at products from three different categories: blood-derived treatments, vaccines, and anti-virals.

A blood-derived treatment is made of antibodies that came from the blood of someone who recovered from Ebola. The experimental blood-derived treatment ZMapp, which comes from genetically modified tobacco plants that produce the antibodies, has received a flurry of media attention in recent days because the handful of infected patients who received the drug appear to be improving. However, experts caution that it's impossible to know whether Zapp is actually effective because of the small sample size.

One vaccine is slated to begin the first phase of clinical trials this fall; another one is scheduled to begin trials in early 2015. The NIH is developing the fall vaccine with Okairos, a pharmaceutical company owned by GlaxoSmithKline. The Canadian government has also said it will donate 800 to 1,000 doses of an experimental vaccine to West Africa. 

The WHO says that it's looking at several anti-virals as well; however, at the press conference, the WHO spokesperson declined to name the possible treatments.


The Race to Production



Now that the WHO has decreed it ethical to try experimental Ebola drugs and vaccines, how much would we actually need for this current outbreak? Brady and his collaborators first identified groups that would need treatments, such as the infected and their families, medical teams and staff that handled the dead, and essential workers who are necessary for local services and humanitarian aid. Then they looked at probable 
 levels of exposure  for each group to calculate how many people might need treatment.

Brady says that the 30,000 is a rough estimate. However, since the researchers found that the number of people who would have needed treatment already is in the tens of thousands, the analysis highlights how far this outbreak has spread, compared to the rural Ebola outbreaks in the past. 

According to the WHO, there are very few doses of these promising drugs available, and some, such as ZMapp, have already run out. To provide fair treatment to the people who want the experimental drugs, their development, production, and distribution would need to scale up quickly. 

Not everyone is on board with this approach, though. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, recently wrote in the New England Journal of Medicine that it's unlikely this epidemic will be solved by a "miracle cure." He warned that sending unproven medicine could backfire, creating even more tension between medical teams and patients. Instead, he suggested that we should depend on the standard practices of outbreak control for the current situation.

Nevertheless, at the end of this month, the WHO will conduct a meeting to decide what experimental treatments and vaccines to pursue. It'll take at least three to five months to develop, produce, and distribute the drugs, and the WHO cautions that even then, supplies will be so low that they're unlikely to make much of a difference in West Africa this time around.


					




















5 Reasons That This is the Worst Ebola Outbreak Ever
Immunization 2.0: Promising New Gene-Based Vaccines
What If Ebola Came to North America?
PM/AM: Health Tech Takes A Tumble
When a Salmonella Outbreak Meets a Government Shutdown
The Truth About 9 Anti-Vaccine Studies







Post a comment









CONNECT WITH POPULAR MECHANICS:

































Featured Video























Giveaways




Enter to Win a new car - worth $100,000!





See All Giveaways










More From Popular Mechanics



10 Myths About Natural Gas DrillingThe New Mini Cooper10 Awesome Accidental Scientific DiscoveriesWhy Is There a Helium Shortage?How to Sell Scrap Metal for MoneyThe 13 Most Important Numbers in the UniverseDid the Soviets Actually Build a Better Space Shuttle?







From Our Partners



The BOSTITCH® Mechanics Tool SetDickies, Pants for Any JobNew Nest Protect. At The Home Depot.
















































Try: 
Hottest Cars Ever  / 
MINI Cooper  / 
Best Gadgets Ever







AboutPopular Mechanics



About Us
Press Room
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Site Map
Contact Us
Community Guidelines
Advertise Online
About Our Ads



Popularmechanics.com

Automotive
Technology
Science
Home How-To
Outdoors
DIY Central







STUFF MEN LIKE
Men's Shoes 2014
Home Inspection Checklist
2014 Suits and Blazers
10 Science Fiction Movies
Matching Shirts & Ties



REVIEWS
Ford F-150
3D Printers
Tuxedo 101
24 Whiskey Drinks
6 Zero Turn Mowers
5 Tablet Reviews


HOW TO
How to Tie a Tie
How to Grow a Beard
5 Painting Tips
How to Make Pancakes
How to Build a Shed
How to Make Beer


TRENDING
The Best Hairstyles for Guys
Watches for Men
Funny Comic Strips
New Cars 2014 & 2015
Top Rated Meatball Recipe
Latest Daily Horoscopes
DIY Halloween Costumes























©2014 Hearst Communication, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Being Green /Why did I get this ad?







































Sign up for Popular Mechanics's free newsletter!




































