Ebola Response | Global Health Delivery Online: Improving health care delivery through global collaborationEbola Response | Global Health Delivery Online: Improving health care delivery through global collaboration

Skip to main content





Home
Communities

About
Blog





Search












     Share resources to support your colleagues in West Africa    
 Join the Ebola Response Community






Improving health care delivery through global collaboration


 JOIN
 Sign in 
 Translate 














Communities
Ebola Response



 About this community 
        
The Ebola response represents a significant delivery and public health challenge, requiring true global collaboration. In this short term community, members are encouraged to share resources, information and support to aid colleagues on the front lines in their efforts to respond to this new epidemic.





Community moderators
Marie Connelly - GHDonline
Elizabeth Glaser - Brandeis University; Global Nursing Caucus











                
                Discussions
                
            

Members



                RSS
 Join this community

 Start new discussion
            













Second US health care worker has tested positive for Ebola

      
      I agree with you, Robert, the MSF guidelines are superior. Yet, if staff had been trained to strictly follow CDC guidelines and had access to equipment that met CDC standards, it still might have been sufficient. They had neither clear protocols nor…
      
      

By Elizabeth Glaser on 15 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
5 Replies








Palliative Care Considerations

      
      That was the same excerpt that really spoke to me!
      
      

By Michelle Kiprop on 15 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
2 Replies








Anti-emetics? Loperamide?

      
      Also in Medbox, here are the Filovirus Haemorrhagic Fever Guidelines from MSF, but caution as these guidelines are from 2008, I do not see an updated version, if anyone knows of one , please send us a link for it.…
      
      

By Diane Hallinen on 14 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
4 Replies








Opportunities for Involvement

      
      Just out of curiosity, how has the response been to the call for healthcare workers? Adequate, insufficient, overwhelming? Are you able to be very selective in your choices for doctors and nurses? Have there been ample applicants with significant…
      
      

By Laila Soudi on 14 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
3 Replies








POC for Ebola

      
      
      
      Dear colleagues, Do we have any news on the development of POC tests for Ebola? http://www.selectscience.net/selectscience-interviews/could-point-of-care-testing-stop-ebola-outbreak/?artID=33330
      
      
      

By Masoud Dara, MD on 14 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
0 Replies








US nurse infected, what can we learned about PPE and ease fo transmission

      
      I believe there are differences in recommended equipment , at least between WHO and MSF.
      
      

By Elizabeth Glaser on 14 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
5 Replies








Story providing a first-hand account of working on Ebola in Liberia in Global Health: Science and Practice

      
      Dear Julie,, Thank you for sending this. Are there other providers who have gone, are incountry , are awaiting deployment that can speak to Dr. Mobula's account? Elizabeth
      
      

By Julie Rosenberg on 14 Oct 2014
0 Recommendations
1 Replies








PPE Improvement Ideas

      
      I raised this question before...means of transmission for Ebola is direc contact with a wide range of body fluids..it is everywhere based upon the video of Ribner from Emory.. I have read enough to come to the conclusion that the portal of entry may be…
      
      

By Ariel Raupagh on 13 Oct 2014
1 Recommendations
2 Replies








Maintaining one ebola free area in Seirra Leone with methods not endorsed by pubic health community

      
      Thank you William for your response, It is difficult to judge the situation on the ground from where most of us are. From experience in working with the traditional healers, I recall they are very trusted by the local communities and educating/orienting…
      
      

By Elizabeth Glaser on 12 Oct 2014
1 Recommendations
2 Replies








Questions on Infant Care and the Ebola response. After reading Fink's article about an infant born in the midst of the Ebola Response

      
      In terms of admission criteria for infants and young children, WHO Ebola case-classification criteria includes signs as well as symptoms. Probable: Any person, alive or dead, who has (or had) sudden onset of high fever and had contact with a suspected,…
      
      

By Rebecca Weintraub, MD on 10 Oct 2014
1 Recommendations
2 Replies



More posts 













Contact Us |
Partners |
Terms of Use |
FAQs |
Members Toolkit

GHDonline’s founding collaborators: Harvard Medical School, Brigham and Women’s Hospital



GHD Blog
Facebook
Twitter









