Radio Havana Cuba | Ban Ki-moon Thanks Cuba for Helping to Fight EbolaRadio Havana Cuba | Ban Ki-moon Thanks Cuba for Helping to Fight Ebola





Español
English
Portugués
Esperanto
Árabe
Francés





Radio Havana Cuba
A friendly voice around the world













Menu
Home
News

Science News
Tourism
Environment
Sports

Olimpics


Economy
Agriculture
International News
Culture
Health News
National News


Specials

Highlights
Exclusive Reports
Commentaires


Interesting

Correspondence
Who We Are?
Web links
Programming Schedule
Frequencies
Photo Gallery
Contests
World of Stamps


The Cuban Five
Podcasts
 





NewsNational NewsBan Ki-moon Thanks Cuba for Helping to Fight Ebola

Ban Ki-moon Thanks Cuba for Helping to Fight Ebola23/44/2014

Facebook
Twitter
Google+
CommentairesUnited Nations, September 23 (PL-RHC) –- UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon thanked Cuba for its contribution to international efforts to address the epidemic of Ebola plaguing West Africa. Ban reiterated his gratitude to the Caribbean nation in a meeting with Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez, who arrived in New York in connection with the busy schedule currently underway at the United Nations, where the General Debate of the 69th Session of the General Assembly begins on Wednesday.
According to a press release distributed by the Office of the UN Secretary General's spokesperson, senior officials at the meeting discussed the viral outbreak that has killed more than 2,500 and left twice as many infected, especially in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
Before the call from the UN for global support to curb the epidemic, the Caribbean country announced that it would be sending a contingent of 165 medical specialists –- 62 doctors and 103 nurses -- in nine days.
The UN Secretary General has repeatedly emphasized Cuba's response to the call, which is a continuation of decades of medical support to Africa, where the services of nearly 77,000 health collaborators have been provided in 39 nations.
During the meeting, Ban and Rodriguez also talked about Cuba's economic updating, climate change and the post-2015 sustainable development agenda that will complement the Millennium Development Goals set 14 years ago. They also addressed the role of Havana as the host of peace talks with Colombia.
Edited by Ivan Martínez  

Related Articles


ALBA Welcomes Cuba's Decision to Send Doctors to Fight Ebola 

Cuba's Decision to Fight Ebola in Africa Makes Headlines in Saudi Arabia and Egypt 

U.S. to Deploy 1,400 Soldiers to Liberia to Fight Ebola  

100 U.S. Marines Leave for Liberia to Fight Ebola  

President Raul Castro Sees Off Cuban Health Brigade to Fight Ebola in Sierra Leone 

The Washington Post Extols Cuban Help to Fight Ebola in Africa  

Cuban Health Workers Arrive in Sierra Leone to Fight Ebola 

Sierra Leone's Health Minister Welcomes 165 Cuban Medics in the Fight against Ebola 

Ban Ki-moon Calls Raul Castro and Requests Assistance to Stop Ebola 


Commentaires

MAKE A COMMENTYour name*Your email(NOT TO BE PUBLISHED)*Your comment* 


 News Audio Recommendations NUMBER OF HITS/VISITORS1069074Max: 19729yesterday: 465today: 395online: 16total: 1069074



Radio Habana Cuba © 2014


up




National News


International News


Exclusive Reports




Sports


Culture


Economy


Science News


Agriculture


Tourism


Environment




Optimized for 



Director General Isidro Fardales González
Editor Jefe Pedro Otero Cabañas
Redactores-Editores Pedro Otero Cabañas
J'Dep. Informática Reinier Clemente López

Who We Are?







