World wakes up to Ebola as cases set to top 1 million - health - 23 September 2014 - New ScientistWorld wakes up to Ebola as cases set to top 1 million - health - 23 September 2014 - New Scientist














SUBSCRIBE & SAVE 74%


MANAGE MY ACCOUNT »
STUDENTS »
GIVE A GIFT »






Health



    










Log in




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close




My New Scientist






Home
News
In-Depth Articles
Opinion
CultureLab
Galleries
Topic Guides
Last Word




Subscribe


Dating




Look for Science Jobs






SPACE
TECH
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
LIFE
PHYSICS&MATH
SCIENCE IN SOCIETY
Cookies & Privacy















Home
|Health
|

		News


		World wakes up to Ebola as cases set to top 1 million


		18:18 23 September 2014 by
			Debora MacKenzie
Magazine issue 2988.  Subscribe and save

			For similar stories, visit the
				Epidemics and Pandemics
					
						Topic Guide







Read full article
Continue reading page 
|1|2


Only decisive action can stop the virus becoming entrenched in Africa and spreading elsewhere, say epidemiologists
The world has finally got serious about Ebola. In a first for a public health threat, the United Nations has launched the kind of response it normally reserves for war zones. Meanwhile, the US, UK and France are sending troops to build treatment units, train health workers and keep order.
It's not a moment too soon: the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warn that without a massive effort to slow the epidemic, a million people in West Africa could have Ebola by January. Some will carry it elsewhere, and the virus may circulate non-stop in Africa for the foreseeable future.
In a clear sign that world leaders are worried, the US has earmarked $500 million to fight Ebola, rising to $1 billion if necessary. Whoever pays, the UN says $1 billion will be needed to stop the epidemic, an order of magnitude more than the World Health Organization estimated in July.
The increase reflects the epidemic's exponential growth: known cases now top 5800, and are doubling every 16 to 30 days. Epidemiologists have known this was coming for months. What has changed is the realisation at the upper levels of the political establishment that Ebola could now have a global impact.
International response
In a reflection of this, the UN Security Council last week called its first-ever emergency meeting on a health threat. It passed a resolution that declared the epidemic "a threat to international peace and security... which unless contained, may lead to further instances of civil unrest, social tensions and a deterioration of the political and security climate". Margaret Chan, director-general of the WHO, drove the point home, telling the Council: "This is a threat to national security, beyond the outbreak countries."





At the Security Council's behest, UN disaster relief experts this week set up a base in Accra, Ghana from which to coordinate international efforts. The UN Mission for Ebola Emergency Response will field military and civilian response teams from China, Cuba, the US, France, the UK and other countries.
Part of the threat if the epidemic continues to grow is the risk to global trade and the integrated financial system. The World Bank estimates that if the epidemic is not substantially slowed, trade and financial disruption could cost West Africa several billion dollars by the end of 2015. "Containment and mitigation expenditures in excess of $1 billion would be cost-effective," the bank says, if they stop that happening.
The epidemic has already halved economic growth in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the three countries most affected. The hardest-hit parts of Liberia and Sierra Leone are key producers of rice, the region's staple food. Quarantining infected people has interfered with harvests and planting, causing a spike in food prices. In hard-hit Kailahun province in Sierra Leone, 40 per cent of farmers have died or fled.
Worldwide spread
The financial toll, the bank estimates, will kick in big time if Ebola gets loose in more countries. There are precedents. A resurgence of polio in Nigeria in 2003 was carried to Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Indonesia, even though many people are immunised against it.
"If it grows as some models predict to hundreds of thousands of cases by the end of 2014, cases could reach other countries," says Thomas Inglesby, head of the Center for Health Security at the University of Pittsburgh. "Cities with weak health systems and high populations could have Ebola epidemics that get out of control." Nearby cities such as Lagos in Nigeria or Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo fit the bill, but epidemiologists worry that infected travellers could get much further, as the virus can sometimes take three weeks to produce symptoms. A person who develops symptoms in Calcutta or Mexico City might infect many more people before anyone recognises the disease.
Ian Goldin of the University of Oxford says the US and other rich countries fear Ebola will weaken their trading and strategic partners such as India, Brazil – or Nigeria, also home to Africa's largest oil reserves, and violent Islamic jihadis. "Threats include extremist takeover, and extremists getting hold of the virus," says Peter Walsh at the University of Cambridge.
That alone, says Inglesby, warrants calling in the armies of other countries. "For a crisis this big, only the militaries of the world have the logistical, administrative and hospital building expertise to meet the challenge."
Permanent problem
But even the military may not be thinking big enough. The US plan includes training 500 health workers per week to manage Ebola cases safely. "But this linear increase in the number of workers may be overcome by an exponentially growing number of cases," says Matthew Hardcastle of the New England Complex Systems Institute. Some of the trainees must become trainers themselves so the number of workers can keep pace.
If efforts to control the epidemic slow, but do not stop its spread, the threat could become permanent. "There is now a high risk that Ebola becomes endemic in West Africa," says Peter Piot, head of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, a co-discoverer of Ebola. This means the virus is always present in people somewhere.

Read full article
Continue reading page 
|1|2









Subscribe to New Scientist and you'll get:
New Scientist magazine delivered every week
Unlimited access to all New Scientist online content - a benefit only available to subscribers
Great savings from the normal price
Subscribe now!

























If you would like to reuse any content from New Scientist, either in print or online, please contact the syndication department first for permission. New Scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are a variety of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the copyright to.





















Helping hands: troops can train health workers (Image: John Moore/Getty Images)


ADVERTISEMENT









More
Latest news


Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



A smell-defying mystery to savour

18:00 15 October 2014
Losing their sense of smell can leave people feeling emotionally blunted – so why is a new exhibition about anosmia so moving, asks Mick O'Hare



Stem cells improve vision enough for horse riding


00:00 15 October 2014
People blinded because of degenerating retinal cells have seen improvements in their sight thanks to injections of retinal cells made from stem cells



What I'd ask Spider-Man, mascot of bio-inspiration


20:00 14 October 2014
Like Peter Parker, Jeff Karp takes ideas from nature and improves on them to make the world a better place. His superpower is innovating in medical technology



see all related stories




MoreLatest news


What would a world without fossil fuels look like?


20:00 15 October 2014
Our advanced civilisation is built on easily exploited coal, oil and gas. New Scientist explores an alternative history that holds lessons for us all



Extinct giant kangaroos didn't hop, they walked 


19:00 15 October 2014
They had faces like rabbits and some were 2 metres tall, but the oddest thing about extinct relatives of modern kangaroos is that they walked just like us



Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



Fly in the face of danger with first-person drone view


18:00 15 October 2014
Zip past obstacles at 160 kilometres an hour but without risking life and limb – the immersive sport of first-person video drone racing makes it possibleStomach-dropping speed and stunts are the norm in first-person drone racing, finds Hal Hodson



see all latest news



 



Most read




5 reasons to worry about a quagga mussel invasion
Pentagon warns the US military of climate change
Desktop sonic black hole emits Hawking radiation
Fish love skyscraper-style living under oil platforms
Exercise may be the best anti-ageing pill




Most read







 


FOLLOW US

Get editors' picks in your social streams


















This week's issue
Subscribe



For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues



18 October 2014





For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues




ADVERTISEMENT













Back to top




















Login




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close










About us

New Scientist

Syndication

Recruitment Advertising

Staff at New Scientist

Advertise

RBI Jobs




User Help
Contact Us
FAQ / Help
Disclaimer
Ts & Cs
Cookies
Privacy Policy




Subscriptions
Subscribe
Renew

Gift subscription
Student Subscription

My account

Back issues
Customer Service




Links
Site Map
Browse all articles
Magazine archive
NewScientistJobs
The Last Word
RSS Feeds

Online StoreiOS & Android apps
Low-bandwidth site




Science Jobs
Search all Jobs
Biology Jobs
Chemistry Jobs
Clinical Jobs
Earth & Environment Jobs
Engineering Jobs
Maths & IT Jobs
Careers Advice




© Copyright Reed Business Information Ltd.














