WHO | WHO issues roadmap for scaled-up response to the Ebola outbreakWHO | WHO issues roadmap for scaled-up response to the Ebola outbreak












Skip to main content








Access


Home Alt+0


Navigation Alt+1


Content Alt+2







Search


 Search the
            WHO.int site




 Submit 









            Advanced search
        






Navigation



Home




Health topics




Data




Media centre




Publications




Countries




Programmes




About WHO








Language


عربي  
中文  
English  
Français  
Русский  
Español  






RSS Feed
Youtube
Twitter
Facebook
Google +
iTunes









       Global Alert and Response (GAR)
	






Menu


GAR Home
Alert & Response Operations
Diseases
Global Outbreak Alert & Response Network
Biorisk Reduction










WHO issues roadmap for scaled-up response to the Ebola outbreak
 
Announcement - 28 August 2014

 

WHO is issuing today a roadmap to guide and coordinate the international response to the outbreak of Ebola virus disease in West Africa. 

The roadmap aims to stop ongoing Ebola transmission worldwide within 6–9 months, while rapidly managing the consequences of any further international spread. It also recognizes the need to address, in parallel, the outbreak’s broader socioeconomic impact. 

It responds to the urgent need to dramatically scale up the international response. Nearly 40% of the total number of reported cases have occurred within the past three weeks.

The roadmap was informed by comments received from a large number of partners, including health officials in the affected countries, the African Union, development banks, other UN agencies, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), and countries providing direct financial support.

The roadmap will serve as a framework for updating detailed operational plans. Priority is being given to needs for treatment and management centres, social mobilization, and safe burials. These plans will be based on site-specific data that are being set out in regular situation reports, which will begin this week.

The situation reports map the hotspots and hot zones, present epidemiological data showing how the outbreak is evolving over time, and communicate what is known about the location of treatment facilities and laboratories, together with data needed to support other elements of the roadmap. 

The roadmap covers the health dimensions of the international response. These dimensions include key potential bottlenecks requiring international coordination, such as the supply of personal protective equipment, disinfectants, and body bags.

The WHO roadmap will be complemented by the development of a separate UN-wide operational platform that brings in the skills and capacities of other agencies, including assets in the areas of logistics and transportation. The UN-wide platform aims to facilitate the delivery of essential services, such as food and other provisions, water supply and sanitation, and primary health care.

Resource flows to implement the roadmap will be tracked separately, with support from the World Bank.

This is a fast-moving outbreak with a number of unprecedented dimensions. The roadmap being issued today is sufficiently flexible to accommodate rapid changes in the outbreak’s epidemiology and the needs this creates.











Share



Email
Twitter
Facebook
Google
Delicious
LinkedIn

More...









Print




Downloads



Ebola response roadmappdf, 1.35 MB


WHO issues roadmap to scale up international response to the Ebola outbreak in west AfricaStatement, 28 August 2014


Related links



Technical information about Ebola virus disease


Publications on Ebola virus disease













You are here:


Global Alert and Response (GAR)


Pandemic and Epidemic Diseases


Ebola virus disease (EVD)








Quick Links


Sitemap


Home


Health topics


Data and statistics


Media centre


Publications


Countries


Programmes and projects


About 
          
          WHO





Help and Services


Contacts


FAQs


Employment


Feedback


Privacy


E-mail scams





WHO Regional Offices



          WHO African Region



          WHO Region of the Americas



          WHO South-East Asia Region



          WHO European Region



          WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region



          WHO Western Pacific Region








RSS Feeds




          WHO YouTube channel


Follow 
          
          WHO on Twitter




          WHO Facebook page




          WHO Google+ page




          WHO iTunes










© 
        WHO 2014


Back to top








