Sierra Leone Declares Health Emergency as Ebola Crisis WorsensSierra Leone Declares Health Emergency as Ebola Crisis Worsens




Home
About Us
Print Editions
Subscribe
RSS Feeds
 


Epoch Times on Facebook
Epoch Times on Twitter
Epoch Times on Google+
Epoch Times RSS Feed






  |


					      Languages
					    


Bulgarian
Chinese
Czech
French
German
Hebrew
Indonesian
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Persian
Portuguese
Romanian
Russian
Slovak
Spanish
Swedish
Turkish
Ukrainian
Vietnamese






Epoch Times

























World, Africa
Sierra Leone Declares Health Emergency as Ebola Crisis Worsens
 
By Associated Press | July 31, 2014Last Updated: July 31, 2014 7:03 am
Tweet

Feedback











>











In this photo taken on Sunday, July 27, 2014,  medical personnel work at the Doctors Without Borders facility in Kailahun, Sierra Leone where Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan died. A leading doctor who risked his own life to treat dozens of Ebola patients died Tuesday, July 29, 2014,  from the disease, officials said, as a major regional airline announced it was suspending flights to the cities hardest hit by an outbreak that has killed more than 670 people. Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan, who was praised as a national hero for treating the disease in Sierra Leone, was confirmed dead by health ministry officials there. He had been hospitalized in quarantine. (AP Photo/ Youssouf Bah)









You may also likeHow Ebola Could Leave Africa: A Tale of Two TravellersLiberia's President Closes Schools Amid EbolaMore in AfricaLiberia’s President Closes Schools Amid EbolaHow Ebola Could Leave Africa: A Tale of Two TravellersThousands Flee to Tunisia to Escape Libya Fighting








FREETOWN, Sierra Leone—The president of Sierra Leone declared a public health emergency as the Ebola crisis blamed for nearly 700 deaths deepened across West Africa, vowing to quarantine sick patients at home and conduct house-to-house searches for others who may have been exposed.
The announcement from President Ernest Bai Koroma late Wednesday came as neighboring Liberia also ramped up its efforts to slow the virulent disease’s spread, shutting down schools and ordering most public servants to stay home from work.
The U.S. Peace Corps also was evacuating hundreds of its volunteers in the affected countries. Two Peace Corps workers are under isolation outside the U.S. after having contact with a person who later died of the Ebola virus, a State Department official said.
Ebola has been blamed for more than 670 deaths in four West African countries this year, and has shown no signs of slowing down particularly in Liberia and Sierra Leone. Among the dead was the chief doctor treating Ebola in Sierra Leone, who was to be buried Thursday.
The government said Dr. Sheik Humarr Khan’s death was “an irreparable loss of this son of the soil.” The 39-year-old was a leading doctor on hemorrhagic fevers in a nation with very few medical resources.
Ebola cases first emerged in the nation of Guinea back in March, and later spread across the borders to Liberia and Sierra Leone. The outbreak is now the largest recorded in world history, and has infected three African capitals with international airports. Officials are trying to step up screening of passengers, though an American man was able to fly from Liberia to Nigeria, where authorities say he died days later from Ebola.
Ebola has no vaccine and no specific treatment, with a fatality rate of about 60 percent. But experts say the risk of travelers contracting it is considered low because it requires direct contact with bodily fluids or secretions such as urine, blood, sweat or saliva. Ebola can’t be spread like flu through casual contact or breathing in the same air.
Patients are contagious only once the disease has progressed to the point they show symptoms, according to the World Health Organization. The most vulnerable are health care workers and relatives who come in much closer contact with the sick.
Tags: EbolaSierra LeoneCategory: World AfricaYou may also likeHow Ebola Could Leave Africa: A Tale of Two TravellersLiberia's President Closes Schools Amid Ebola

 
 







Tweet

Feedback














 











Home
New York
US
China
World
Opinion
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Dining
Arts & Culture
Entertainment
Life
Style
Sports
Photo Galleries
Video
Forum
 







Copyright © 2000-

Subscribe
Advertise
About Us
Contact Us
Print Editions
RSS Feeds
Become a Blogger
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright Policy











Top








     








