First Suspected Ebola Patient at Hope Clinic | Compassion and Mercy AssociatesFirst Suspected Ebola Patient at Hope Clinic | Compassion and Mercy Associates


Compassion and Mercy Associates					Joining Hands to Reach a Hurting World


Home
About
Our Work
Blog
Resources
Donate
Search
 



First Suspected Ebola Patient at Hope Clinic
August 7, 2014 | Sarah Baker
Tags: disaster response, Ebola, Guinea, health care, Hope Clinic, prayer requests, training, Urgent Updates
Updated: The first suspected Ebola patient has been moved from Hope Clinic to a larger hospital. 
Note 8/28/2014: CAMA has since learned that the suspected Ebola patient was immediately referred to the WHO representatives at the larger provincial hospital and did not remain at Hope Clinic. There has been no word as to whether the patient tested positive for Ebola or if he recovered from his illness.
As part of their response, clinic staff will increase their Ebola awareness trainings in the surrounding villages.
Below is a letter from Moise, Executive Secretary of Eau de la Vie, the non-government organization that CAMA helped to launch and that now administers Hope Clinic:
Dear Brothers, Sisters, and Friends,
Image credit: www.weather-forecast.com
I am taking this opportunity to explain to you what we are currently undergoing. We received a call from Hope Clinic that a suspected Ebola patient had arrived yesterday. Clinic staff called the larger hospital in N’Zérékoré to ask for assistance with proper care of this patient. There was no follow up to the request, possibly due to fear.
I also received a call from the neighboring region of Yomou saying that they had four people who came down with Ebola and died. They infected six others who were then sent to a containment area. Unfortunately, no one knows how they are doing as people aren’t allowed to have contact with them. Communication with the aid workers is difficult.
We are hearing that in the N’Zérékoré hospital five others have now died from Ebola. The doctors and nurses who had contact with these patients have been put into isolation to determine if they have been contaminated or not. For this reason our clinic in N’Zao decided to close the clinic for 10 days so we can receive further training on how best to care for ourselves and others.
Three weeks ago, before the epidemic worsened, we were going from village to village three times a week. We trained people to wash their hands and purify their drinking water to prevent the spread of Ebola.
Now that the epidemic is in our area and people are dying from it, I want to increase our visits to the surrounding villages to five times a week. By doing this, we hope to reinforce what people have already learned.
However, for us to increase our visits, we need much prayer as well as financial assistance. Pray for those who will do the training, and pray for those who must decide where we are most needed. 
Financial assistance will be a necessary priority as it takes a great deal of “on the ground support” to carry out these village training seminars. The funds will be used to purchase soap for cleaning hands, bleach for treating drinking water, transport for those leading the practical teaching, monthly salaries, etc.
I want to thank you for allowing me to share with you my concerns that we are currently facing. If it wasn’t for your prayers and financial help, we wouldn’t be able to carry out this much-needed training.
Moise
Executive Secretary
Eau de la Vie
CAMA will be supporting the Ebola awareness training efforts with funds from the CAMA Ebola Crisis Fund. We encourage you to join in this effort through your prayers and gifts.



Share

Share
Tweet










Don Wood says: 

			August 10, 2014 at 10:43 am 
Dear God, Stay the deadly hand of this virus and suppress it quickly.  Protect, provide and manifest Your Power to save.


















Related Posts


Guinea Prayer Guide
October 15, 2014


And Now for the 6 O’Clock News
October 13, 2014


Bosnian Church Helps Flood Survivors Prepare for Winter
October 9, 2014


Widow Nowei Fund
September 30, 2014


#ServeChallenge
September 29, 2014






Donate
Photo Gallery
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
 Facebook
Twitter
Google+
RSS
 Compassion & Mercy Associates • 8595 Explorer Drive • Colorado Springs, CO • 80920 • 719-265-2039
© 2014 Compassion & Mercy Associates


Pages

Home
About
Our Work

Serve
Workers


Blog
Resources

Media
Newsletter
Disaster


Donate

Other Ways to Give


Photo Gallery
Search
Contact Us
Privacy Policy



Projects

ACCEDES Projects
Africa Famine Relief
Africa Wells
Beer-Sheba Project
Building on a Fountain of Love
Burkina Faso Hospital
Burkina Faso Student Scholarships
CAMA Advance Fund
CAMA AIDS Work
CAMA Balkans Field
CAMA Benevolent Fund
CAMA Burkina Faso Field
CAMA Disaster Relief Fund
CAMA Ebola Crisis Fund
CAMA Guinea Field
CAMA Indonesia Field
CAMA Mali Field
CAMA Senegal Field
CAMA Thailand Field
CAMA Water Projects
Cambodia AIDS Project
Candlelight School
Community Arts Center
Cyber Matters Computer Consulting
Ethiopia/Hope Community Services
FAARO Argentina
Guinea Children’s Education
Hands of Honor
Himalayan Horizons
Honduras Project
Hope Clinic Benevolent Fund
Hope Clinic, Guinea
Hovd Region Ministries
Jege Numan “Good Fish” Fish Farm
Kosovo Community Development
Kosovo: Agape Change Counseling
Kosovo: Risi Riciklimi – Innovations in Recycling
Kosovo: the Agape Center
Lydia Center
Mali Projects
Mighty Men Fitness Club
Moise Mamy Memorial Fund
Mongolia Economic Development
Moringa for Africa/Asia
Papua United Football Club
PC Vision/Africa
Philippines Prison Ministry
Pioneer Christian Hospital
Poipet Community Health
Rahab Center, Mali
Small Plot Irrigation
SVP Fund
Syrian Refugee Relief
Tabitha Center
Vietnamese Children’s Project



Workers

Stephen and Lori Albright
Tim and Huyen Bartholomew
 Brian and Katie
 Carolyn D.
 Carolyn P.
 David and Jenny
Seby and Jeana de Vroome
Jon and Anja Erickson
Jeremy and Krista Fields
Meredith Hoffman
Doug and Anya Holcomb
 Jason and Elissa
 Josh and Rachel
 Katherine
 Kirk and Calah
Larry and Krista Lain
Kate Manske
Buzz and Myrna Maxey
Shawn and Becky McCabe
An and Mau Nguyen
Marvin and Hayley Pitman
Ron and Lisa Ramsey
David and Doris Strong
Dianna Ullrich
Renee Walker



Marketplace

Impresionz
Laos–CAMACrafts
Laos–Mulberries Silk
Mercy Market






