BBC News - Ebola outbreak: Barack Obama 'to pledge US troops to fight virus'BBC News - Ebola outbreak: Barack Obama 'to pledge US troops to fight virus'












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























16 September 2014
Last updated at 07:52


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola outbreak: Barack Obama 'to pledge US troops to fight virus'


The World Health Organization warned recently that thousands more cases could occur in Liberia


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 US President Barack Obama is to announce plans on Tuesday to send 3,000 troops to Liberia to help fight the Ebola virus, US officials say. 
It is understood the US military will oversee building new treatment centres and help train medical staff. 
There has been criticism of the slow international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. 
Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea are the worst-hit countries. The outbreak has killed more than 2,400 people.
More than half of those killed by the virus have been in Liberia. The World Health Organization (WHO) warned recently that the country could see thousands of more cases.


The US says that a priority should be to train healthcare workers



More than half the deaths from the 2014 Ebola virus outbreak have been in Liberia

United Nations officials will discuss the international response to the outbreak at a meeting in Geneva.
US officials said the aim of the country's anti-Ebola initiative is to:

 Train up to 500 healthcare workers a week
 Construct 17 heathcare facilities, each with about 100 beds 
 Establish a joint command based in Monrovia, Liberia, to co-ordinate between US and international relief efforts
 Distribute home healthcare kits to thousands of households
 Conduct a home and community-based campaign to train local people in how to handle patients
 Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has appealed directly to Mr Obama for help in tackling the outbreak.
Several disease experts have welcomed the US plan, though some also question its focus on Liberia.
"We should see all of West Africa now as one big outbreak," says Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, quoted in The New York Times. 
"It's very clear we have to deal with all the areas with Ebola."
On Monday, Ghanaian President John Dramani Mahama said greater and faster outside help was needed. 
Ebola spreads between humans by direct contact with infected blood, bodily fluids or organs, or indirectly through contact with contaminated environments.






Liberia at a glance:

 Infrastructure devastated by a 14-year civil war
 About 250,000 people killed in the conflict that ended in 2003
 One doctor to treat nearly 100,000 people before Ebola outbreak
 Ebola cases this year: 2,046
 Ebola deaths this year: 1,224
 Population: 4.4 million
 Source: WHO



Are you in West Africa? What has been the impact of the Ebola virus where you are? You can email your experiences to haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

Or send us your experiences using the form below.







(Required)  Name




(Required)  Your E-mail address




(Required)  Town & Country




(Required)  Your telephone number






(Required)  Comments





If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Clear






More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch











From other news sites


Reuters UK  UPDATE 3-Obama to deploy 3,000 troops as Ebola crisis worsens 1 hr ago


Yahoo! News UK and Ireland  Obama to deploy 3,000 troops as Ebola crisis worsens 1 hr ago


International Business Times UK  Ebola Outbreak: Obama to Announce 3,000 Troops to Battle Disease in Liberia 4 hrs ago


The Independent  Obama pledges 3,000 military personnel to west Africa as Ebola outbreak worses 7 hrs ago


Guardian.co.uk  Ebola: US sends in 3,000 soldiers 9 hrs ago


About these results













Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












