Free of Ebola, Holden doctor comes home - Worcester Telegram & Gazette - telegram.comFree of Ebola, Holden doctor comes home - Worcester Telegram & Gazette - telegram.com



















Welcome to telegram.com. You have 1  articles  remaining before being asked to register or login.









FAQ
Login
Register





















CURRENT WEATHER
72° / L/RAIN

»  More weather
»  WEB CAM





Wednesday, October 15, 2014



Search past 30 days (free)
Search back to 1989 ($)















Home

Front Page
Mobile


News

News Rewind
Local News
Columnists
Nation/World
Court Records
Watchdog
City Hall Notebook
Unresolved Cases
The Day In Pictures
Then & Now
Photos/Video
Odd News
Traffic
Weather
Calendar
T&G on Facebook
T&G on Twitter


Obituaries

View Obituaries
Submit Obituary
Obituary FAQ


Opinion

Opinion Section
Opinion Columnists
Letters to the Editor
David Hitch
Don Landgren
As I See It
Blogs
Photo Blog
Article Comments


Sports

Sports Section
Hometeam
Columnists
Red Sox
Patriots
Celtics
Bruins
Sharks
Golf Guide

Area Results
Games Today
TV Listings


Business

Business Section
Business People
Business Briefs
What's New?
Markets
Consumer News
CEO One-On-One
Personal Technology
Bottom Line
Economic Driver
Business Calendar
Cover Story
Columnists
The Motley Fool
Small Business
Jobs Market
Workplace
Real Estate
Newsletters
Jobs
Business Matters eEdition


Living

Living Section
Dining & Entertainment
Dining Reviews
Movie Showtimes
Things To Do
Columnists
Lottery
Parade
Calendar
Weekends in Worcester
Comics
Sudoku
Crossword
Puzzles


Sites

TelegramTowns
Hometeam Magazine
The Item
The Banner
Worcester Living
MassMoms
Pets
eEdition
Business Matters eEdition
Anytimeads
Merchant Mall
Services Marketplace
Dining & Entertainment
Dining Reviews
Worcester Connects


Classifieds

Classifieds Section
Marketplace
Video Marketplace
Place An Ad
Legal Notices
Pets
Celebrations
Merchant Mall
Services Marketplace


Autos

Browse/Search Autos


Jobs

Browse/Search Jobs


Real Estate

Browse/Search Real Estate


Advertise

Media Kit
Place An Ad


Services

About Us
Home Delivery
Subscribe
Coupon Values
Sales Flyers
T&G Rewards
Newsletters
Text Alerts
eEdition
eEdition: Teachers
Reprints & Licensing
News Tips
Contact Us


Subscribe

Print/Digital Bundles
Digital-Only Bundles

























EQUIPMENT OPERATOR Driver's & hoisting licenses required, along with ...

EQUIPMENT OPERATOR II in Holden DPW Highway Division. Work involves safe  ...

GROUP INSURANCE ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE An independent life & health Insurance  ...

HOUSEKEEPER needed full-time at Dodge Park Rest Home. Must work weekends. ...

 BOOKKEEPER / MANAGER ASSISTANT  Bookkeeper / Office Assistant - National ...

PAINTER MIN. 5 yr. new construction exp. req. Tools and transportation ...

LEGAL SECRETARY - Established Worcester law firm seeks full-time Legal ...

SPRINKLER FITTER EXPERIENCED - LICENSED ONLY  Inspections & service work. ...

 SITE FOREMAN (M / F) / SUPERINTENDENT - Experienced in site work & ...

STOREROOM CLERK - DXP is seeking a Storeroom Clerk in Worcester. 6 ...

More great jobs attelegram.com/monster
Employers Advertise Here
































 











Thursday, September 25, 2014
Free of Ebola, Holden doctor comes home
ARRIVAL AT WORCESTER REGIONAL AIRPORT




Dr. Richard Sacra and his wife, Debbie, smile Thursday evening as they walk across the tarmac upon arrival at Worcester Regional Airport. (T&G Staff/CHRISTINE PETERSON)


By Thomas Caywood TELEGRAM & GAZETTE STAFF
tcaywood@telegram.com











Add a comment
























Photo Galleries


SLIDESHOW: Dr. Richard Sacra





Related


Obama urges world to do more to tackle Ebola




Red Cross team attacked while burying Ebola dead













WORCESTER — Dr. Richard Sacra, the local physician stricken with Ebola in Liberia last month, is healthy and home in Holden after more than three weeks of successful treatment in a special isolation unit in Nebraska.







Dr. Sacra arrived at Worcester Regional Airport with his family on a private charter flight Thursday evening. He walked deliberately, if a bit slowly, across the tarmac and through the terminal to a waiting car.Dr. Sacra was released from the Nebraska Medical Center Thursday morning after tests Monday and Tuesday by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found no Ebola virus in his blood, his doctors said.“The CDC has declared me safe and free of virus. Thank God. I love you all,” Dr. Sacra said to applause at a hospital news conference.The 51-year-old physician told reporters in Nebraska he feels well but remains weak after his brush with Ebola virus disease.Dr. Sacra said at the news conference he was looking forward to walking his dog when he got back to Holden, but his wife joked that he's more likely to just fall asleep because he still tires easily.A fellow American Ebola survivor, Dr. Kent Brantly, who donated blood plasma as part of Dr. Sacra's treatment, has warned the Holden family physician that he won't be ready to resume his normal life for weeks.“My friend Dr. Brantly told me in no uncertain terms that this is not going to be a very quick recovery,” Dr. Sacra said.Dr. Sacra said he would take it easy as advised, but he said he couldn't rule out returning to Liberia to care for patients again at some point in the future. He practices at Family Health Center of Worcester and is an assistant professor of family medicine and community health at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.Family Health Center President Frances Anthes said the staff cheered when the news of Dr. Sacra's release from the hospital was announced at a previously scheduled staff meeting Thursday morning.“If he wants to take it slow and do a couple of days a week for a while when he comes back that would be fine by us, but I wouldn't be surprised if he does eventually decide to return to Liberia,” Ms. Anthes said.Dr. Sacra has lived in Liberia full time for long periods and, more recently, has traveled there frequently with a missionary group.At the family's local church, Holden Chapel, the Rev. Thomas Curtis said the congregation rejoiced at the news that Dr. Sacra's treatment had succeeded to the point that he could be released from the isolation unit.“We know it's going to help a lot more people than just Rick, and we're thrilled about that. We're so happy for him and his family, and even the African community because we know they'll receive the help from the scientists,” Rev. Curtis said.Dr. Sacra was infected with the Ebola virus in late August while caring for pregnant women at a Liberian clinic. Although he can't know for certain, Dr. Sacra said at the morning press conference he figures he was infected during one of several cesarean sections he performed at the clinic.His patients weren't known to be infected with Ebola, but the disease already had spread widely through the country when he returned to Liberia in early August. “I would like to request a continued outpouring of prayer and practical help for the people of West Africa. Though my crisis has reached a successful end here, unfortunately the Ebola crisis continues to burn out of control in West Africa,” Dr. Sacra said.The World Health Organization this week put the number of Ebola cases in West Africa at 6,263 with 2,917 deaths and counting. This is the largest Ebola outbreak in history by far, according to the organization.As terrible as the outbreak has been in West Africa, Dr. Sacra said there's no reason for Americans to panic because the nation's hospitals are screening for Ebola whenever a patient who has been traveling presents with a high fever.“I came with a big label on me that said, 'This guy has Ebola.' Everybody knew exactly what to do with me, which is good,” he said. “The general public in the U.S. is at pretty low risk right now, so thank God for that.”Dr. Sacra said he never feared he wasn't going to survive, given the speedy evacuation and dedicated care he received in Liberia and then at the Nebraska Medical Center.He is scheduled to speak to the media Friday morning at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, officials said




Brian Lee of the Telegram & Gazette staff contributed to this report.

Contact reporter Thomas Caywood at tcaywood@telegram.com. Follow him on Twitter @ThomasCaywood











Add a comment










 "Like" the Telegram on Facebook
  
 Follow us on Twitter








Most Read Today




Assumption College remains closed after bomb threat


Assumption College campus evacuated after bomb threat


Rex Ryan still confident in Jets


Worcester council says Comcast is unwelcome


Millbury to close South Main Street bridge for 2-3 years


Shrewsbury raises tax rate 8.4 percent; average bill to go up $550


Fired procurement officer sues Quabbin school officials, alleging age, gender bias

2nd Texas nurse with Ebola was on flight


4 Auburn establishments penalized for selling alcohol to a minor


Courthouse Records






























NEWS
telegram.com
Local News
World & Regional News
Columnists
Health & Fitness
Deaths
Multimedia
The Day in Pictures
Court records
Watchdog
Past headlines
Corrections
Weather
Mobile

SPORTS
Sports section
Area results
Sports columnists
Hometeam


LIVING
Living section
Movie reviews & showtimes
DVD releases
TV listings
Dining Guide
Ten Things to Do
Telegram Studio
Comics
Sudoku
Crossword
Parade
Games
Lottery
Events calendar

BUSINESS
Business section
Business @ Noon
Consumer News


OPINION
Opinion section
Columnists
Letters to the Editor
Blogs
As I See It
Article comments

PUBLICATIONS
The Banner
TelegramTowns
Hometeam
The Item
Worcester Living

WEBSITES
Gone But Not Forgotten
MassMoms.com
TelegramTowns
Pets
Worcester Living


NEWSLETTERS/FEEDS
Headline News
Reader Recap
Keyword Search News
Business @ Noon
RSS feeds
Mobile Phone Alerts
Weekend Starts NOW
MassMoms Newsletter

DELIVERY
Place a new subscription
Renew a subscription
Vacation stops
Billing changes
Address changes
Home delivery help
Telegram & Gazette Vacation Locations (PDF)
FAQ


CELEBRATIONS
Weddings
Engagements
Birthdays
Anniversaries
Other
Order forms

CLASSIFIEDS
Classified ads
Legal Notices
Real Estate
Marketplace
Video Marketplace
Jobs
Cars
Pets
Place An Ad


FOLLOW US

Facebook


Twitter


RSS


Newsletters


Text alerts

© 

 Halifax Media Group
Privacy Policy
Submissions Policy
Subscription Services
Reprints & licensing
T&G Rewards
Contact us
Work here
Advertise with us
About our ads









