Fuel Fix » Ebola outbreak threatens oil-producing NigeriaFuel Fix » Ebola outbreak threatens oil-producing Nigeria 




















 









 









Home
Oil Field
Pipelines
Refining
Power
Washington
Voices
Jobs & Career Advice
chron.com

 

















Ebola outbreak threatens oil-producing Nigeria

Posted on August 6, 2014 at 3:35 pm by Robert Grattan					 in Africa, Crude oil, Safety/Security 

Share this:EmailPrint0 



 Houston volunteers are loading supplies to help fight Africa's ebola outbreak. (Cody Duty / Houston Chronicle)


HOUSTON — West Africa’s Ebola outbreak has been limited  so far to countries that are relatively minor players in the oil and gas industry, but with new reports of the disease arriving in Nigeria — the continent’s most populous nation and largest oil producer — officials are closely watching the virus’ progress.
Reports have  placed the virus in Lagos,  Nigeria, Africa’s largest city and a regional transportation hub.
“Should there be a significant outbreak in Lagos, the consequences for the West African oil and gas industry would be massive,” said John Campbell, a senior fellow for Africa policy studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and U.S. ambassador to Nigeria from 2004 to 2007.
“One would anticipate that the big oil and gas companies would evacuate their expatriate personnel and production would throttle way back.”
The World Health Organization estimated that as of Aug. 4, the virus had infected 1,711 people and killed 932, mostly in the West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. The WHO also reported two probable and seven suspected cases in Nigeria, including one death.
Campbell said that so far the Nigerian government has taken effective action to quarantine infected individuals, but that the virus could overwhelm efforts to contain it.
“Given the importance of Nigeria as the economic hub of West Africa, it would seem possible that the disease would gain a foothold there,” he said. “The authorities are doing all they can to prevent that.”
At that point, the outbreak’s impact on African oil and gas may rise from minor delays to major disruption – in addition to a deadly public health crisis.
Nigeria is the largest oil producer on the continent. International companies operating there include U.S. giants Exxon Mobil and Chevron; Royal Dutch Shell; Italy’s Eni and France’s Total.
The nation ranks 12th worldwide in oil production, at about 2.4 million barrels per day in 2013 , and was the fifth largest net exporter in 2012, according to most recent available statistics from the U.S. Energy Department.
Short of a full, devastating outbreak, foreign companies could be affected by travel bans if they are instituted in affected areas.
Already, British Airways has suspended flights to parts of the West African region and other carriers are screening passengers for symptoms, according to reports.
At a meeting this week in Geneva, the World Health Organization is considering additional options, which could  include recommending restrictions on air travel to the affected areas .
Campbell said he would be surprised if air travel restrictions affected Nigeria at this point.
In Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea, the small oil and gas operations that do exist are largely insulated from the ongoing public health crisis.
Chevron, which operates in  Sierra Leone and Liberia, said in a written statement that it is continuing to monitor the situation and that its priority remains keeping its workforce healthy.
Exxon Mobil has delayed drilling an exploration well off the coast of Liberia, according to a report by its minority partner in the venture, Calgary, Alberta-based Canadian Overseas Petroleum Ltd.
The drilling was pushed later into the year due to “the reduced presence of expatriates in the country,” and Canadian Overseas is monitoring developments, a spokesman for the company said.
Exxon Mobil told FuelFix that its Monrovia, Liberia office is open and that it is continuing drilling preparations.
In addition to the largest-ever death toll from an Ebola outbreak, the crisis is hitting the affected nations’ economies. Reports estimate Sierra Leone’s economic growth has slipped by around 1 percent.



Share this:EmailPrint0 

Tags:chevron, Ebola, exxon mobil, Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, shell, Sierra Leone 
« Previous Post
Next Post »





Robert Grattan



Follow: 




Latest Posts:
Automakers, utilities studying how to manage electric vehicles 10/15/14
Study: Natural gas surge won’t slow global warming 10/15/14
Endeavour International oil field in North Sea back online 10/15/14
Eagle Ford expected to hit 1.6 million barrels next month 10/15/14
NuStar, Pemex plan pipeline project to Northern Mexico 10/15/14
 









 













Follow Fuel Fix





















Newsletter SignupSign up for the Fuel Fix newsletter
Sign up for the Fuel Fix newsletter







Featured Videos


Categories

Select Category
Accidents
Africa
Arctic
Asia
Australia
Bay Area
Beaumont
Biofuels
Canada
CERAWeek
Chemicals
Chronicle 100
Coal
Consumers
Corporate governance
Crude oil
Deals
Eagle Ford
Electricity
Entertainment
Environment
ERCOT
Europe
Exploration
featured
Finance/Earnings
Gasoline
General
Gulf of Mexico
Gulf oil spill
Houston Suburbs
Hydraulic fracturing
Jobs & Career Advice
Keystone XL
Laredo
Latin America
Legal issues
LNG
Markets
Middle East
Midland
Natural gas
Natural gas liquids
Nuclear
Offshore
Oil field services
OTC
People
Pipelines
Politics/Policy
Premium
Production
Rail
Real estate
Refining
Safety/Security
San Antonio
Shale
Smart Meters
Social
Solar
Storage/Processing
Technology
Texas
The Woodlands
Transportation
Weather
Wind
Workforce



 Recent Posts


Automakers, utilities studying how to manage electric vehicles


Study: Natural gas surge won’t slow global warming


Endeavour International oil field in North Sea back online


Eagle Ford expected to hit 1.6 million barrels next month


NuStar, Pemex plan pipeline project to Northern Mexico



Contributors
The award-winning team behind FuelFix.com:











Laura Goldberg
business editor


Don Mason
asst. business editor












Jennifer A. Dlouhy
policy reporter


Collin Eaton
energy reporter












Ryan Holeywell
energy reporter


Rhiannon Meyers
energy reporter












Robert Grattan
energy reporter


Josh Cain
digital producer







 
 





























About Fuel Fix
FuelFix.com is your daily must-read source for news and analysis on the energy business. Anchored by business reporters at the Houston Chronicle and other Hearst newspapers, FuelFix incorporates blogs by energy experts, market updates, useful data and a real-time summary of the top ideas, hottest stories and latest news.

Follow Us:













 | Home
 | Privacy Policy
 | Web Site Terms and Conditions of Use
 | About Us





© 2014 Hearst Communications Inc.






 

Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			











