Ebola Outbreak 2014: How Researchers Use Big Data To Help Stop The DiseaseEbola Outbreak 2014: How Researchers Use Big Data To Help Stop The Disease

Jump to Navigation






Toggle navigation





Pulse








Start Searching 





 



Home
Politics
Economy
Markets / Finance
Companies
Technology
Media & Culture
Sports
Video
 
Pulse










 









 




Ebola Outbreak 2014: How Researchers Use Big Data To Help Stop The Disease 

    By Kathleen Caulderwood  | Thu, 2014-09-25 11:53  


Share on Twitter


Share on Facebook


	      Subscribe to IBTimes
	    



      Like us on Facebook






          Subscribe to our Newsletter
          

Invalid e-mail address.

Email *



 




 




 


            A scientist separates blood cells from plasma cells to isolate Ebola RNA to test for the virus at the European Mobile Laboratory in Gueckedou April 3, 2014. Researchers are now turning to big data from social media and mobile phones to help fight the deadliest outbreak ever.          

            Reuters/Misha Hussain           



The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the largest ever recorded.To date there have been more than 5,800 cases and 2,800 deaths recorded by the World Health Organization (WHO). The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has predicted that it could affect 1.4 million people.  Before this, the largest Ebola outbreak killed 425 people in Uganda more than a decade ago.
But today, health workers are using a resource they didn’t have back then. 
“Big data has really changed epidemiology,”  Madhav Marathe, director of Virginia Bioinformatics Institute’s Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory, said to International Business Times.
His team has been working with the U.S. Department of Defense for nine years to help track diseases like Ebola and H5N1 and create models to predict how they might spread. Recently, they’ve started using data from cellphones and social media in addition to more traditional methods. 
“There have been some very interesting new developments that can have a huge impact,” he said, explaining that researchers are now using new sources like cellphone data or social media postings to help them track and fight the deadly virus. “You take all this data and build this virtual city and it allows us to synthesize and fuse multiple data sources to run large-scale simulations.” 
Caitlin Rivers, one of his Marathe’s team members, has been compiling and analyzing data as part of a new project called “#HackEbola,” in which she digitizes the data put out by local ministries of health and publishes the results online.
The recent outbreak has only emphasized how weak health systems are in the affected countries. Sub-Saharan Africa is home to 1 percent of the world’s population but bears 24 percent of its global disease burden, according to the WHO. Before the outbreak, Liberia had just one doctor for every 70,000 people, while Sierra Leone one for every 45,000. At the same time, mobile data use has been growing exponentially and is on track to hit 930 million users by the end of 2019, up from 551 million at the end of last year. For doctors fighting Ebola, this is more than an interesting trend -- it’s a valuable resource.
“If it were happening in the U.S. we’d have a lot of databases for health care and electronic records, but those things don’t exist in the same way over there,” Laura Forsberg White, associate professor of biostatistics at Boston University, told IBtimes. “There is a lot of interest and people feel optimistic that there is a lot we can gain from this that we can’t gain from our traditional data sources.”
Caroline Buckee, associate director of the Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics at Harvard’s School of Public Health, has spent the last few years using cellphone data to help track diseases. 
“They are particularly useful sources of data in settings where we don’t have other information,” Caroline Buckee, assistant professor of epidemiology at Harvard School of Public Health, told IBTimes. She and her team have been working with local cellphone providers, who are able to give them data from cellphone users that helps track movement. “This approach could be useful almost anywhere there are people and phones.”
Basically, whenever a person makes a call, the call is routed through the nearest cellphone tower, which can give an approximate location. 




Flowminder used a random sample of 150,000 anonymous mobile phones to map out average daily movements. This kind of data is being used by researchers to help stem the Ebola outbreak. 
 Flowminder 


“You can build up a picture of where the person is over time, and count the transitions between different towers,” Buckee said, adding that all cellphone providers “anonymize” their data, which means that researchers can analyze how people are moving, without knowing anything else about them, which addresses privacy issues. 
Buckee recently joined the board of Flowminder, a Stockholm-based organization that uses cellphone data to help NGOs and government agencies tackle large-scale public health problems that come from natural disasters or disease outbreaks. 
Unlike malaria, Ebola is transmitted by human contact, which means knowing when and how people are moving around can provide incredible insight to researchers trying to stem the outbreak. 




A map created by Flowminder using anonymous cell phone data shows how people move from various urban centers in West Africa. 
 Flowminder


 
But it’s not just cellphone movement that’s helping researchers, it’s also what people are using their phones for. 
HealthMaps is another online platform that combs the Internet to track and predict diseases around the world. Nine days before the WHO announced the outbreak in Guinea on March 23, a team of researchers thousands of miles away already knew about it, because their software had picked up a local news report of “une étrange fièvre,” (a strange fever) in the Guinean town of Macenta on March 14.




HealthMaps has been tracking the Ebola outbreak since March 14. 
 HealthMaps 


“We allow anyone, anywhere in the world to submit a direct report of an outbreak event,” HealthMaps co-founder Clark Freifeld said in a recent interview with Fast Company, adding that the more people become connected, the more possibilities are opened up.
 


Share on Facebook


Share on Twitter

Next





 


See The Newest Airbus Make Its First Flight 












Share on Facebook


Share on Twitter


Next




 





Join the Discussion


 






 




Most Shared





 


What Horror Movies Are On Netflix? 








 


John Oliver Asks Why Are We Still Celebrating Columbus Day 





 



 




Most Read 

 
 

 







    Latest Stories  


 


Mediterranean Diet: Separating Fact From Fiction 


0 0 



 


We'll Tell You What TV Show To Watch 


0 0 



 


What Horror Movies Are On Netflix? 


0 0 

Pages1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
…
next ›
 















Obama To Hold Cabinet Meeting On Ebola Outbreak 

Hong Kong Activists Surprised By New Police Crackdown 

Egypt Says Its Warplanes Are Bombing Islamist Militias In Libya 

'I Was Assaulted Yet Again In The Police Station' 


 
ISIS May Have Chemical Weapons, But Can It Use Them?  


 
Airstrikes Kill Hundreds Of Islamic State Fighters Near Kobani 


More Politics 

Africa
Asia Pacific
Europe


Middle East
The Americas
US








Four Reasons Why Jean Tirole Won The Nobel Prize In Economics 

Chinese Trade Stronger Than Expected In September  

UK Income Tax Receipts Set To Fall Short Of Target 

Euro Zone Seeks To Soften German Opposition To Stimulus Spending 


 
Europe Could Save Up To $80B In Energy Imports 


 
Why Americans Aren't Spending 


More Economy 

Africa
Asia Pacific
Europe


Middle East
The Americas
US








Toyota Recalls 1.67M Toyota, Lexus Cars 

Big US Banks Post Stronger Profits As Expenses Ease 

Hewlett-Packard And EMC Call Off Merger Talks: Sources 

Probe Of Bergdahl's Capture By Taliban Complete And Under Army Review 


 
Dow Cuts Losses As Fed Says Economy Seeing Steady Growth 


 
Dow Dips On Global Economic Fears 


More Markets / Finance 

Commodities
ETF
Financial Services
Forex


Gold
Precious Metals
Market Data








Costco Opens Online Store With Alibaba 

Toyota Recalls 1.67 Million Toyota, Lexus Cars 

Citi Pulls Out Of Consumer Banking In 11 Countries 

Hazmat Suit And Face Mask Stocks Surge Amid Ebola Crisis 


 
How Canada Is Leading The Ebola Fight  


 
IndiGo To Buy 250 Airbus Aircraft In Largest Order Ever 


More Companies 

Autos
Basic Materials
Energy
Manufacturing


Real Estate
Transportation
Retail/Consumer Goods








Google Rolls Out New Nexus Phone, Tablet And, In Surprise, A TV Box 

Skype Qik: Microsoft's Video-Messaging App For A Snapchat Era 

Amazon Out To Prove It's Serious About Games 

How To Avoid Poodle Hack, Step One: Don't Panic 


 
Google Takes On Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV With Nexus Player 


 
Apple Set To Unveil New iPads, Macs  


More Technology 

Companies
Mobile
Computers
Games


Internet
Social Media
Science








Heeere's Jay Leno -- Again 

LA Galaxy Gay Soccer Player Robbie Rogers Inspires ABC Comedy 'Men In Shorts' 

Bentley The Ebola Dog Will Not Be Euthanized 

Avalanche In Nepal Kills At Least 17 Climbers, Several Missing 


 
'Friends' Will Be There For You On Netflix — Every Episode 


 
Neil Young Talks PonoPlayers And David Crosby On 'The Howard Stern Show' 


More Media & Culture 

Art
Books
Education
Entertainment


Industry News
People
Travel








Injury Woes Deepen For Arsenal 

Chargers Become Contenders Under Second-Year Coach  

England's National Pastime Could Be Its Latest Export  


 
2014 Playoffs Help Usher In New Era Of Baseball  


 
Future Of United Target In Doubt 


More Sports 

NFL
MLB
NBA
NHL


Tennis
Golf
Soccer
World Cup








Miley Cyrus' New Short Film Features Drug Use And NSFW Content 

Honoring The Man Who Helped Develop Kevlar And Saved Countless Lives 

Should We Be Able To Pay For Different Levels Of Quality In Our Medicines? 

Brandeis University Needs To Take Its 'Core Principles' Seriously - Letter 


 
One More Thing On The Apple Keynote: Why No Diversity? 


 
'Bang Bang' Video: Sexually Empowering Or Objectifying Women? 


More Opinion 

Analysis
Fighting Words


SportsNet







 
Resident Evil Revelations 2 Will Break Tradition 


 
Stocks Gyrate In Volatile Week: Is The Party Over?  


 
Interbrand Unveils Best Global Brands In 2014 


 
The Ultimate Naruto Fighting Game 


 
The Legend Of Zelda Meets Dynasty Warriors 


 
What Does Siri Think Of Apple’s Tax Shenanigans? 

































 









Did You Like This Story?

 


Share on Facebook


Share on Twitter


No Thanks 

 





About IBTimes

About Us
Leadership
Advertise with Us
Media Kit
Contact
Careers
Terms of Service
Privacy
IBT Media
Press Releases
Syndication
 



© 2014 IBT Media All Rights Reserved






