Ebola outbreak: Canadian doctor paints devastating picture upon return from frontlines | CTV News Ebola outbreak: Canadian doctor paints devastating picture upon return from frontlines | CTV News 









Advertisement









 


Video


Shows


Canada


World


Politics


Entertainment


Sci-Tech


Health


Autos


Business


Sports










CTV News


Mobile


CTV







Search



Search CTV News

X



 







Skip to Main Content
Skip to Section Links












Home






Diet and Nutrition






Fitness






Body and Mind






Lifestyle






Health Headlines





































Canadian doctor paints grim picture upon return from Ebola frontlines
































Share:









 


 

Text:

 
 
 
 


(12)






		
             CTVNews.ca Staff
					                      


	Canadian doctor Robert Fowler has seen the devastation of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa first-hand and says he now understands the challenges that health care workers there are facing.

	Fowler is a critical care physician at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre in Toronto. He spent the last six months working with the World Health Organization, travelling back and forth to West Africa working on the frontlines with infected patients.

	Fowler described the work as demanding: physically because of the intense heat and the long hours, but also emotionally, because the disease is so ruthless and because the challenges of working in countries with so little resources are so steep.

	"Working in an Ebola treatment centre in West Africa, short of being in the middle of a war, is probably the hardest thing that I will ever encounter," Fowler told CTV News in an interview.

	The Ebola outbreak has killed close to 3,000 people already and the WHO says it will likely kill thousands more before it is brought under control. As a doctor, Fowler said it's difficult to imagine the toll Ebola has taken on regular families living in these affected countries until one sees it.

'Clearly devastating'

	"There are lots of people we have seen and treated for whom most of their family has been wiped out. That is clearly devastating for an individual who might survive," Fowler said.

	Fowler has witnessed what happens when clinics become overwhelmed with patients, and new patients arrive to facilities that are already too full to care for them. Many of these patients simply lie down and die just outside clinic doors, he said.

	What's most difficult, though, is trying to treat children who are already beyond help.

	"It is very tough to treat a child who is very sick who doesn’t get better. Kids who die hit people very, very hard. And that is certainly the case with me," Fowler said.

	Adding to the doctors' stress is knowing that they themselves are at risk of infection just by treating these patients, Fowler said.

	To guard against infection, each health worker has to wear several layers of protection to reduce their risk, which include gowns, gloves, masks, goggles and head gear.

	Even without the suit, the temperature was hot. But with the suit on, it was stifling.

	Thermometers kept inside their pockets would show temperatures upwards of 40 and even 45 degrees, he said.

	And because the suits are impervious, sweat begins collecting inside them fairly quickly. "So you lose a lot of water over the course of the work -- maybe a litre an hour," he said.

	It's often when health workers try to readjust their overheating suits that they put themselves at risk of contamination by allowing their hands to get close to their eyes, nose or mouth.

	"It's very easy to have a slip-up when you're in the facility, or even more so when you're coming out, because it's very hot," he said.

	"There's a natural tendency to want to readjust things, to try to mop sweat away from your brow, and you have to be on guard all the time to not do those natural manoeuvres."

'I’m optimistic'

	For those people living in the hardest hit parts of the countries, the Ebola outbreak has put an end to normal life, he said.

	"People are almost entirely focused on this outbreak, not just in health care, but in the education system – all school has stopped – all aspects of life in these countries are affected," he said.

	One consolation, Fowler said, is that about half the patients he and his teams have treated have been able to recover from the virus.

	The key, though, is to treat patients early in their illness with fluids and electrolyte replacement and to have the supplies available to help them.

	What's needed most now, Fowler said, is for more personnel to arrive to help and more supplies. But he's hopeful that will happen and that the disease will be brought under control.

	"I’m optimistic in the sense that I think we can provide good care to patients if we have enough personnel there. I’m optimistic in the sense that we know how Ebola is transmitted, and we have the knowledge to contain it and to stop further infections.

	"What we need now are more resources – both personnel and non-personnel to get the job done. Are we there yet? Not even close. Are we able to get there? Absolutely.”

With a report from CTV medical specialist Avis Favaro and producer Elizabeth St. Philip




Related Stories



More than 3,000 dead from Ebola says WHO




Canada contributing another $30M to fight Ebola




Black market sale of Ebola survivors' blood raises concerns 





Photos




 


Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre Critical Care physician Dr. Rob Fowler appears on CTV News, Friday, Sept. 26, 2014.




 


A healthcare worker sprays disinfectant in the area they found a man suspected of suffering from the Ebola virus in Kenema, Sierra Leone, Thursday, Sept. 25, 2014. (AP / Tanya Bindra)




 


Children walk in the St Paul's Bridge neighborhood of Monrovia, Liberia, Friday Sept. 26, 2014. (AP / Jerome Delay)





Share this story:









 





Report Error






MOST WATCHED 






false



Canada AM: When you're hungry, you're hungry











false



CTV Ottawa: Second driver comes forward











false



Canada AM: Cat seals $140,000 deal











false



Canada AM: Where I Belong











false



Extended: Brawl breaks out during soccer match











false



CTV Kitchener: Autopsy set for today











false



News headlines from CTV News Channel 











false



CTV Calgary: Child recovers from dog bite











false



 CTV Atlantic: Natural gas leak prompts evacuation











false



CTV Northern Ontario: Report released











false



Canada AM: Fashion forward multi-height heels











false



CTV Toronto: New details in downtown shooting























Write your comment here :



Enter your name : 
          


Enter your email : 
          

*Will not be shown on the website

Word verification 
Type in the characters you see in the picture below. If you have trouble reading the characters in the picture, click it to see a new one.





 




        We welcome your comments. Bell Media reviews every comment submitted, and reserves the right to approve comments and edit for brevity and clarity. Please be advised:
        
        Comments are moderated and will not appear on site until they have been reviewed.
        
        Comments are not open on some news articles; Bell Media reserves the right to choose commenting availability.
    
Guidelines

Preference is given to commenters who use real names.
Stay on topic and be concise.
Stimulate debate.
Offer new information.

What not to do:

We will not publish comments that are profane, libelous, racist, or engage in personal attacks. 
We screen for comments that seek to spread information that is false or misleading. 
We will not publish: Comments written that are poorly spelled; or are written in caps; or which use strange formatting to get noticed. 
If you're using an alias, make sure it's unique.
We will not publish comments that link to outside websites. 


    Thank you for following these guidelines and contributing your thoughts. You are contributing to debate and discussion, and helping to make this website a more open place.
    












 More Stories from Health News












Most heroes act on intuition, not reason, study finds















Man assaults dentist with tire iron to get dental care in prison


Company recalls nitroglycerin spray used to treat angina


NDP requests more info on Canadian Ebola outbreak plan


Is Canada prepared to handle Ebola? Not really, nurses say


Nurses share true feelings about Ebola outbreak on confessions app







 








 










Advertisement




CTV News Video Network 






false



Second driver in hit-and-run that killed teen turns self in











false



'Suspicious' remains found: Autopsy set in Guelph, Ont.











false



Extended: Drone sparks brawl at soccer match in Belgrade











false



Calgary blackout having big impact on businesses











false



Cat clause: Tiffany the cat and company seal $140K home deal












Most Popular Stories 


1
2nd Texas nurse with Ebola was on flight


48
  



21
  




2
Four Canadians among 12 dead in Nepal


7
  



2
  




3
Teacher shares 3 key insights after 'eye-opening' day shadowing students


20
  




4
Her house won't go on: Celine Dion's childhood home demolished


14
  



1
  




5
Supply glut plunging gas prices near two-year low in Canada


44
  



2
  




6
Calgary toddler mauled in dog attack; owner flees


16
  



1
  




7
Canadian-American feminist cancels speech after threat of mass shooting


24
  




8
Nurses share true feelings about Ebola outbreak on confessions app


6
  




9
Teens charged in ice bucket prank on autistic Ohio boy


9
  




10
Steenkamp's cousin: When Pistorius killed Reeva he ruined our family










Connect with CTV News











MyHealth Videos 





false



Bionic eye: Leading edge surgery wiring patients for sight









false



How Canadian research is helping detect, treat breast cancer







false



New research hopes to extend life for brain cancer patients












 Facebook Activity 













About CTV


Careers


CTV News Stox


Advertise on CTV


Bell Media Press Room


Privacy Policy


Terms and Conditions


Producer Guidelines


Contact Us














Local News

CTV Atlantic News


CTV Calgary News


CTV Edmonton News


CTV Kitchener News


CTV Montreal News


CTV Northern Ontario News


CTV Ottawa News


CTV Regina News


CTV Saskatoon News


CTV Toronto News


CTV Vancouver News


CTV Winnipeg News





CTV Two

Atlantic


Alberta


Barrie


London


Ottawa


Windsor


Vancouver Island





CTV News Programs

CTV National News


Canada AM


Power Play


W5


CTV Question Period







sign in
sign out




CTV News GO


Video Help


CTV News on Mobile



Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy© 2014  All rights reserved.Bell Media Television
Back to top
 




   

  






