#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja | WEST AVENUE PALMS™#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja | WEST AVENUE PALMS™



 WEST AVENUE PALMS™
Keeping you updated is our job





Main Menu
Skip to content
About UsContact Us







#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja

September 2, 2014 ·
by hayfordedohs ·
			Bookmark the permalink.			·



A 19-year-old Law student at the Ahmadu Bello University has been diagnosed with the Ebola virus disease in Kaduna.

Bilyaminu Umar, the spokesman for the, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, confirmed the case on Monday, 1 September.
He revealed that the student was diagnosed at ABUTH, Shika, Zaria.
He said, “Yes, there was a case of a suspected Ebola patient. He is with the Faculty of Law, ABU, Zaria and will be placed on isolation. I am out of town, but will confirm details on my return from a trip.”
Meanwhile, a patient suspected of having the Ebola virus disease died in Abuja, FCT on Friday, 29 August, after being admitted on Thursday, 28 August.
Asokoro District Hospital released a statement confirming the death, while also reassuring the public that all those who came in contact with the deceased are under surveillance.


About these ads




Share this:TwitterFacebookGoogleLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 

			Tags: Abuja, Ebola, Kaduna 


 Recent Posts 

Breaking News: Linda Ikeji Blog has been shut down by google


Ibrahim Babangida still undergoing treatment in Germany, misses Nigeria terribly


Barcelona face La Liga exclusion if Catalonia becomes independent


Like us on facebookTop Posts & Pages


Exclusive: Difference between Brandy, Whiskey, Rum, Vodka, Bourbon, Scotch, Champagne, tequila and Gin



Miley Cyrus Masturbates On Stage



Autopsy results is out. Robin Williams hanged himself with a belt



Shocking: Angry wife strips best friend naked for having affair with husband (PHOTO)



Meet Mimi Whyte, the Lady who Sells
Bleaching Cream For Most Abuja Fair Babes
(Photos)



Miley Cyrus Resurrects A Very Naked Hannah Montana! Meet Hannah Conda!



Caught in the act: Mother of 2 stripped naked, sent packing over adultery



These are 5 secret SEX zones to BLOW your man’s mind



Isn’t she lovely? Actress, Nadia Buari looks
smoking HOT in a form-fitting blue dress
(LOOK)



#Ebola: 19-year-old student suspected of Ebola in Kaduna || Another person dies in Abuja



Follow WEST AVENUE PALMS™ on WordPress.com

 24 hours EntertainmentTeresa Giudice's Jail Time Won't Stop Her From Being With Her Daughters! Details About Her Plans To ALWAYS Be With Her Girls HERE! October 15, 2014 Jail isn't an easy thing to be staring down, but Teresa Giudice actually seems to be coming to terms with it. While she will begin her sentence at the beginning of the new year, she is using the rest of this year to prepare for it. As any good Real Housewives of New Jersey fan knows, Tre [...]Friends Is Finally Heading To Netflix! Fans Can Visit Central Perk At The Tip Of Their Fingers Starting 2015! October 15, 2014        Oh Gunther, you know you love it! Friends fans, rejoice! After 10 years of being off the air with endless reruns on TV, the beloved comedy is now heading for Netflix! That's right, now you'll be able to spend time with Monica, Phoebe, Rachel, Ross, Chandler, & Joey at any hours of the day as long as [...]If You Think This Is Kathy Bates' Last Season Of American Horror Story, THIS Might Change Your Mind! October 15, 2014 We're still on the fence about Jessica Lange's return for season 5… But after reading what Kathy Bates had to say in regards to American Horror Story's exciting renewal news - we think she'll definitely be back for a spooky time in fall 2015! When asked if she'd been approached for the 5th installment by the creators, [...]Taylor Swift Is Covered In Kittens In New Diet Coke Ad — But Wait, Is That A New Song From 1989 Playing In The Background?? October 15, 2014Kittens galore!! Would you expect anything less than adorable kitties for Taylor Swift?? We aren't surprised! So, hypothetically, if Taylor's life was as good as Diet Coke tastes, it would be filled with joy and wondrous kittens! [ Photos: 11 Reasons Why Taylor Swift Is The Best Best Friend To Have! ] Duh! Ch-ch-check out the adorableness (above)!! […]Kim Kardashian West Announces Her 34th Birthday Bash In Las Vegas With THIS Sexy Poster! October 15, 2014 It's almost that time of year again, Dash Dolls!! Your queen Kim Kardashian's birthday on October 20th is almost here - and for her 34th year, she's going to be celebrating BIG at Tao nightclub in Las Vegas!! [ Photos: Kim Kardashian Looks Extra SeXXXy In This GIF Gallery! ] The reality TV beauty posted the (above) announcement [...]No More Pining For Him! Robin Thicke Threw A Divorce Party That Involved Drinking, Models, & Leonardo DiCaprio! October 15, 2014 Here's some MORE proof of these two being unexpected besties! Paula Patton finally filed for divorce from her husband Robin Thicke and initially he seemed to be pretty bummed about their split. He DID dedicate an entire album to trying to win back his wife after admitting he cheated on her. [ Related: EXCLUSIVE! Robin & Leo Are [...]Warner Bros. Announces 10 DC Superhero Movies, 3 Harry Potter Spinoffs, More LEGO Films, And A Partridge In A Pear Tree! October 15, 2014 OK, so Warner Bros. waited all this time and then announced everything at once?? It's almost too much to process! Space it out next time, bros! First off, let's talk Harry Potter! We already knew Fantastic Beasts & Where To Find Them wouldn't be just one flick. [ Related: Harry Potter Spinoff Will Be Not One, Not [...]Teresa Giudice Will Make Money Off Her Jail Time! This Plan Is One You Will Want To READ All About! October 15, 2014 Who didn't see this coming?! Teresa Giudice will be writing a tell-all book about her jail time! Her crisis manager, Wendy Feldman, has confirmed the BIG news that will surely make her a few bucks:   "She will make money off a tell-all book, because people will want to know her prison secrets." It seems her crisis manager has [...]Justin Bieber Got TWO MORE Visits From The Cops At His Beverly Hills Condo! What Was He Up To This Time?? October 15, 2014Trouble follows this boy everywhere! Justin Bieber just can't figure out how to behave, and now that he's returned to his Beverly Hills condo… …well, nothing has changed! After traveling abroad, Bieberoni welcomed himself back home with a party at his condo. Unfortunately, as it's happened before, his neighbors weren't too pleased with th […]Benedict Cumberbatch Talks Sexual Experimentation & Reveals He Would 'Fight To The Death' For LGBT Rights! October 15, 2014 Oh, Benedict Cumberbatch. How can this much perfect be in one man? The Sherlock actor recently spoke with Out Magazine about a plethora of things relating to himself and his upcoming film The Imitation Game. In the film, Benedict plays Alan Turing, the gay codebreaker in World War II who was found dead later in his life [...]


Post navigation
← Rumour: Manchester United agree Falcao deal Ex-Kogi commissioner dies in auto-crash →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (Address never made public)



Name



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 







 Recent Post 

Breaking News: Linda Ikeji Blog has been shut down by google


Ibrahim Babangida still undergoing treatment in Germany, misses Nigeria terribly


Barcelona face La Liga exclusion if Catalonia becomes independent


Facebook PageExclusive: Difference between Brandy, Whiskey, Rum, Vodka, Bourbon, Scotch, Champagne, tequila and Gin
Miley Cyrus Masturbates On Stage
Autopsy results is out. Robin Williams hanged himself with a belt
Shocking: Angry wife strips best friend naked for having affair with husband (PHOTO)
Meet Mimi Whyte, the Lady who Sells
Bleaching Cream For Most Abuja Fair Babes
(Photos)

Follow WEST AVENUE PALMS™ on WordPress.com

 24 hours updatePhotos: Desmond Elliot meets with his supporters at Surulere October 15, 2014Foremost Nollywood actor Desmond Elliot who recently declared his intention to run for the Lagos State House of Assembly has made good his ambition by concentrating his mobilization formation on Youth sensitization, strategic orientation and party leadership meeting.The politician on Sunday met with some of his loyalists and followers at Surulere who were al […] Linda IkejiPhoto and name of second US Ebola patient revealed October 15, 2014Texas Presbyterian Hospital healthcare worker, Amber Vinson, has been revealed as the 2nd Ebola patient who flew from Cleveland to Dallas on Monday. She was one of those who attended to Liberian Thomas Eric Duncan at the US hospital. Her photo was just released but they have since said anyone who was in the plane or came into contact with her should not be w […] Linda IkejiSaeon unveils debut EP "I Am Saeon - The EP" with artistic beauty pics October 15, 2014Baseline Music's First Lady presents "I Am Saeon - The EP" a body of work that gives a true depiction of Saeon's sexy persona and unique song writing style while engaging listeners with its melodic array and perfect delivery. As indicated in a recent post to her fans, "This is a project I worked on especially for you...my motivation. […] Linda IkejiUS tracking 132 air passengers who traveled on same flight with 2nd Ebola patient October 15, 2014Oh dear! This is not good at all. The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention is currently trying to track down 132 air passengers who flew from Cleveland to Dallas on Monday October 13th after they found out that the second Ebola patient from the Texas Presbyterian Hospital flew on the same flight that day. The unidentified healthcare worker didn' […] Linda IkejiPhotos: Tony Tetuila takes his campaign to his ward in Kwara state October 15, 2014Singer turned politician Tony Tetuila, who is running for Kwara State  House of Assembly, Irepodun LGA, is currently in the state to meet with Oro Ward 2 leaders and other women leaders in his local government, who welcomed him with open arms. See more photos after the cut...   Linda IkejiWoman found guilty of people trafficking after forcing two Nigerian women into prostitution by making them eat snakes October 15, 201424 year old Lizzy Idahosa (pictured left) and her husband Jackson Omoruyi, 41 (pictured right), have been found guilty of trafficking in people after they forced two Nigerian women into prostitution by making them eat snakes in a black magic ceremony, UK Daily Mail reports.Lizzy and Jackson, according to reports, made more than £70,000 out of the women, who […] Linda IkejiWhen Love Happens Premieres tomorrow Thursday Oct. 16th October 15, 2014Desmond Elliott, Gideon Okeke, Weruche Opia, Bukky Wright, O.C. Ukeje, Bassey Keppy Ekpeyoung and other Nollywood stars would grace the red carpet as When Love happens, the new movie from FilmOne Distribution Company would be premiering on Thursday October 16 at Genesis Deluxe Cinemas, The Palms, Lekki.The movie which would be released in cinemas across Nige […] Linda IkejiExclusive photos from Taiwo Oshadipe's burial October 15, 2014Late singer Taiwo Oshadipe who died on Friday 3rd of October was buried today October 15th at Victoria Court Cemetary, Lekki. Her parents and husband didn't attend but her 1 year old son, sister and other family members attended. May her soul rest in peace..amen. See more photos after the cut... Linda IkejiLabaran Maku, Wike, Obanikoro, four others resign as Ministers October 15, 2014Seven serving ministers in President Jonathan’s cabinet today October 15th resigned their positions.Those who resigned are: the Ministers of Information, Labaran Maku; Minister of Trade and Industry, Samuel Ortom; Minsiter of Health Prof Onyebuchi Chukwu, Minister of State for Defence Dairus Ishaku, Minsiter of Labor, Emeka Wogu, Minister of State for Defenc […] Linda IkejiDettol launches ‘Give Life A Hand’ campaign to foster good hygiene culture in Nigerians October 15, 2014It is Global Handwashing Day today!!!  In commemoration of October 15 as Global Handwashing day, leading global antiseptic brand, Dettol; from the stables of Reckitt Benckiserhas launchedthe“Give Life a Hand Campaign” to further strengthen its commitment to  improved best hygiene practices and hand washing habits in Nigeria. (pic above -   Pupils with Nollyw […] Linda Ikeji


Twitter Follow @westavenuepalms
search 
Search


 NetworkedBlogsBlog:WEST AVENUE PALMS™Topics: Facts And Stories,       Entertaiment News,       Breaking News  Follow my blog





 24 hours EntertainmentTeresa Giudice's Jail Time Won't Stop Her From Being With Her Daughters! Details About Her Plans To ALWAYS Be With Her Girls HERE! October 15, 2014 Jail isn't an easy thing to be staring down, but Teresa Giudice actually seems to be coming to terms with it. While she will begin her sentence at the beginning of the new year, she is using the rest of this year to prepare for it. As any good Real Housewives of New Jersey fan knows, Tre [...]Friends Is Finally Heading To Netflix! Fans Can Visit Central Perk At The Tip Of Their Fingers Starting 2015! October 15, 2014        Oh Gunther, you know you love it! Friends fans, rejoice! After 10 years of being off the air with endless reruns on TV, the beloved comedy is now heading for Netflix! That's right, now you'll be able to spend time with Monica, Phoebe, Rachel, Ross, Chandler, & Joey at any hours of the day as long as [...]If You Think This Is Kathy Bates' Last Season Of American Horror Story, THIS Might Change Your Mind! October 15, 2014 We're still on the fence about Jessica Lange's return for season 5… But after reading what Kathy Bates had to say in regards to American Horror Story's exciting renewal news - we think she'll definitely be back for a spooky time in fall 2015! When asked if she'd been approached for the 5th installment by the creators, [...]Taylor Swift Is Covered In Kittens In New Diet Coke Ad — But Wait, Is That A New Song From 1989 Playing In The Background?? October 15, 2014Kittens galore!! Would you expect anything less than adorable kitties for Taylor Swift?? We aren't surprised! So, hypothetically, if Taylor's life was as good as Diet Coke tastes, it would be filled with joy and wondrous kittens! [ Photos: 11 Reasons Why Taylor Swift Is The Best Best Friend To Have! ] Duh! Ch-ch-check out the adorableness (above)!! […]Kim Kardashian West Announces Her 34th Birthday Bash In Las Vegas With THIS Sexy Poster! October 15, 2014 It's almost that time of year again, Dash Dolls!! Your queen Kim Kardashian's birthday on October 20th is almost here - and for her 34th year, she's going to be celebrating BIG at Tao nightclub in Las Vegas!! [ Photos: Kim Kardashian Looks Extra SeXXXy In This GIF Gallery! ] The reality TV beauty posted the (above) announcement [...]No More Pining For Him! Robin Thicke Threw A Divorce Party That Involved Drinking, Models, & Leonardo DiCaprio! October 15, 2014 Here's some MORE proof of these two being unexpected besties! Paula Patton finally filed for divorce from her husband Robin Thicke and initially he seemed to be pretty bummed about their split. He DID dedicate an entire album to trying to win back his wife after admitting he cheated on her. [ Related: EXCLUSIVE! Robin & Leo Are [...]Warner Bros. Announces 10 DC Superhero Movies, 3 Harry Potter Spinoffs, More LEGO Films, And A Partridge In A Pear Tree! October 15, 2014 OK, so Warner Bros. waited all this time and then announced everything at once?? It's almost too much to process! Space it out next time, bros! First off, let's talk Harry Potter! We already knew Fantastic Beasts & Where To Find Them wouldn't be just one flick. [ Related: Harry Potter Spinoff Will Be Not One, Not [...]Teresa Giudice Will Make Money Off Her Jail Time! This Plan Is One You Will Want To READ All About! October 15, 2014 Who didn't see this coming?! Teresa Giudice will be writing a tell-all book about her jail time! Her crisis manager, Wendy Feldman, has confirmed the BIG news that will surely make her a few bucks:   "She will make money off a tell-all book, because people will want to know her prison secrets." It seems her crisis manager has [...]Justin Bieber Got TWO MORE Visits From The Cops At His Beverly Hills Condo! What Was He Up To This Time?? October 15, 2014Trouble follows this boy everywhere! Justin Bieber just can't figure out how to behave, and now that he's returned to his Beverly Hills condo… …well, nothing has changed! After traveling abroad, Bieberoni welcomed himself back home with a party at his condo. Unfortunately, as it's happened before, his neighbors weren't too pleased with th […]Benedict Cumberbatch Talks Sexual Experimentation & Reveals He Would 'Fight To The Death' For LGBT Rights! October 15, 2014 Oh, Benedict Cumberbatch. How can this much perfect be in one man? The Sherlock actor recently spoke with Out Magazine about a plethora of things relating to himself and his upcoming film The Imitation Game. In the film, Benedict plays Alan Turing, the gay codebreaker in World War II who was found dead later in his life [...] 



Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
			 | 
The Oxygen Theme.		











Follow

Follow “WEST AVENUE PALMS™”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 4,379 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com







%d bloggers like this:




 




