Prayer in the time of Ebola » AFRICA IS A COUNTRYPrayer in the time of Ebola » AFRICA IS A COUNTRY





AFRICA IS A COUNTRY







Breaking News


Ebola in Perspective: The role of popular music in crisis situations in West Africa
Cultural Anthropology published a series of articles last week called...
Israel’s arms exports to African countries has more than doubled
Despite an overall drastic decline in Israeli arms exports,...
That story about Akon’s “giant Ebola air bubble”
People, that story about Akon, the Senegalese-American R&B singer,...
Get Well Soon, Ashoka
Today the American network NBC announced publicly that friend (and contributor)...
To Live and Die with Ebola in Liberia
Shaki Kamara was a 15-year-old Liberian boy who lived...





Home
About Us
File Under:

POLITICS
MUSIC
PHOTOGRAPHY
FILM
VIDEO
TELEVISION
BOOKS
POETRY
JOURNALISM
HISTORY
SPORT


Football is a Country
Africa is a Radio
Contact











Prayer in the time of EbolaSarah Ladipo Manyika | September 8th, 2014






News of Ebola in West Africa immediately sent me back to the spring of 1974, when another highly contagious and deadly hemorrhagic virus known as Lassa fever swept through my hometown of Jos, Nigeria. All through that hot and dry season, people drove straight through my city with their car windows closed, even though they had no air conditioning, so as not to catch what they feared to be blowing in the wind. I was a young child at the time and as the daughter of a pastor, I prayed fervently for those suffering. I prayed that the afflicted would be cured, but in spite of my prayers, many people died. I was shaken by these deaths but nevertheless continued to pray for I took hope in the seemingly miraculous recovery of an American missionary nurse.
Nurse Lily Pinneo was the first Lassa fever patient dramatically airlifted out of West Africa to the United States, just like today’s first American Ebola patients, Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol. Nurse Pinneo not only recovered from Lassa fever; she returned to Nigeria with her antibodies, which were then successfully used in the form of a serum to cure others. In light of the recent anxieties surrounding the arrival of Ebola patients in the U.S., it is hard to imagine that Nurse Pinneo was not transported in a specially outfitted medical evacuation plane. Instead she traveled in the first class section of a commercial flight with little more than a curtain separating her from the other passengers. It was a Pan American Airways Boeing 707 that stopped in Accra, Monrovia, and Dakar picking up new passengers at each point.

Now, some forty years later after the Lassa fever outbreak, I worry about Ebola and in particular about my friends and family who live in West Africa. “Please be careful,” I urged my brother in a recent email sent from where I live in San Francisco to where he works in Lagos. I was hoping he might reassure me by saying he was taking extra care, but instead he replied: “There’s nothing much one can do to be ‘careful’. Like everybody else in Nigeria, I will just have to rely on prayer.” I groaned when I read this for I’m not sure my brother believes in prayer and even if he does, his email reads like a vast over-reliance on prayer at a time when there are many more practical things that can and should be done. Except perhaps in a densely populated megacity with close to 21 million people living in the context of widespread poverty and a lack of awareness about disease. Here, the arrival of a pandemic such as Ebola could be catastrophic, even apocalyptic. What my brother’s response made me realize was that in places like Lagos where the healthcare system is inadequate and health workers are constantly on strike, this leaves people with little option but to rely on prayer. 
While I no longer have the same unwavering belief in prayer that I had as a child, I continue to pray. At the start of the Ebola outbreak, Ling, my local dry cleaner, pointed to a photograph of her beloved Pope Francis and told me she was praying for those suffering from Ebola. I told her I was praying too. Several days later, in a conversation with my Palestinian neighbor, Mohammed, as we bemoaned the atrocities taking place in the Middle East, we both spoke of how we could do little but pray. So like my brother and many others in Nigeria, as well as those in the areas most affected by Ebola in Sierra Leone, Guinea, Liberia and now Senegal, I find myself, almost in spite of myself, relying on prayer. And yet prayer is undoubtedly a powerful way of fostering bonds between neighbours and friends. Prayer might even be powerful enough to bring about miracles, but it can never be a substitute for the alleviation of problems that require coordinated international efforts on matters of governance, regional security, healthcare and public services. Ultimately, what I pray for most urgently these days is for greater, concerted human effort to solve today’s most terrifying problems. Some things are simply beyond human control, but Ebola is not one of these.
Images Credit: Victor Ehikhamenor


Sepp Blatter says  sports boycotts don't work. 'Would Mandela agree?'


We will be back tomorrow

The following two tabs change content below.BioLatest Posts




Sarah Ladipo Manyika
Sarah was raised in Nigeria and has lived in Kenya, France, and England. Her first novel, In Dependence is published by Legend Press and Cassava Republic Press.







Latest posts by Sarah Ladipo Manyika (see all)



Prayer in the time of Ebola - September 8, 2014


News from Nigeria - April 25, 2014




Share this:EmailTwitterFacebookTumblrRedditMoreGooglePrintPocketPinterestStumbleUpon



Categories: EDITORIAL, Featured, Latest











Recommended


The great Thomas Sankara was murdered on this day 27 years ago


AIAC Music Revue: Is DJ Lewis’s “Stop Ebola” his “Grippe Aviaire” pt. 2?


5 Questions for a Filmmaker … Jahmil X.T. Qubeka


The majority of Burkinabé favor progressive change on gender rights





			One thought on “Prayer in the time of Ebola”		





Nneka on September 9, 2014 at 4:33 pm said:




Upon the much anticipated return of this site’s hiatus…this is the article that I end up reading first. No mention of the current doctor’s strike and it’s obvious impact on containing and treating Ebola. No mention of the social and racial politics underscoring the international news coverage of this ‘EPIC PANDEMIC’ ravaging the dark continent. Instead we get a prayer piece..





Leave a Reply Cancel reply










 



 










  



 Partners  



 Journalism 




 
Coup d’Etat is the new Black
13 Apr 2012 at 8:48 am



 
‘Maasai Cricket Warriors’
16 Mar 2012 at 1:00 pm



 
Apparently revolutions are not good for tourism
10 Mar 2011 at 1:00 pm



 
White History Month
3 Feb 2011 at 7:10 am



 
‘The Nigerian Nostalgia Project’
21 Jun 2011 at 9:00 am



 
Beauty Shop
7 Dec 2010 at 1:00 pm



 
Working Class and Gay in South Africa
27 Feb 2010 at 9:40 am



 
Witchcraft and the British Media
2 Mar 2012 at 12:03 pm



 
Why would the BBC care what FW de Klerk thinks?
21 Dec 2012 at 5:24 pm



 
All the immigrants’ crimes in Italy
14 Dec 2012 at 6:00 am


















© 2013 Africa is a Country






 







Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			


































