u.S.o: [MUST READ] Identity of the Ecowas #Ebola Diplomat Revealed: Late doctor knew diplomat had Ebola virusu.S.o: [MUST READ] Identity of the Ecowas #Ebola Diplomat Revealed: Late doctor knew diplomat had Ebola virus





























































u.S.o



Life + Awareness blog....


























































































Saturday, August 30, 2014








[MUST READ] Identity of the Ecowas #Ebola Diplomat Revealed: Late doctor knew diplomat had Ebola virus









The Rivers State Commissioner for 
Health, Dr. Samson Parker, says the late Dr. Samuel Enemou, who treated 
Olu Koye, a Nigerian diplomat with the Economic Community of West 
African States, was aware that the diplomat was a carrier of the deadly 
Ebola virus.



Continue reading after the cut....
 

The commissioner stated this during a press conference in Port Harcourt on Friday evening.

Parker said, “He had received the late 
Dr. Patrick Sawyer in Lagos. Upon developing the symptom, confided in a 
female colleague, called Lilian, who contacted the late Enemuo. It was 
after contact was established with Dr. Enemuo that Olu Koye flew to Port
 Harcourt to see him.

“To conceal his movement, Koye, who had 
been quarantined among other people for having primary contact with the 
late Dr. Sawyer, the Liberian-American who transmuted the Ebola virus 
into Nigeria, sneaked out of the isolation unit where he was being 
observed and took a flight to Port Harcourt and switched off his phone 
so that he could not be reached or traced should he answer a call.”

On arrival in Port Harcourt, he said 
Koye checked into Mandate Gardens, a local hotel in the Rumunokoro area 
in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area.

The hotel is within the Rumunokoro area where Dr. Enemuo’s private health facility, Sam Steel Clinic is located.

Parker added, “From what we have 
gathered so far, Dr. Enemuo, knowing that Koye was positive of the Ebola
 virus took some measures of precaution to protect himself while 
treating Koye.

“Knowing the enormity of what he was 
doing, Enemuo upon Koye’s departure for Lagos, poured bleach all over 
the room that Koye slept in order to sanitise the place.”

He said the deceased, after having 
developed the symptom, approached a colleague for treatment at Good 
Heart Hospital along Evo Road in G.R.A.

He said Enemuo did not tell the doctor that was treating him the truth, stressing that he merely told him that he had fever.

Parker said, “He lied. He did not tell 
the doctor that was treating him his full story. But the doctor, a nice 
and conscientious professional, suspected that Enemuo was either hiding 
something or was suffering from a strange ailment because he proved 
negative to malaria, fever and typhoid fever.

“To be sure of what he was doing, he 
spoke to other very experienced doctors about the strange case he was 
handling in his hospital.”

The commissioner said the doctor 
treating Enemuo even invited some his colleagues to come over to his 
hospital to study Enemuo’s medical history.

He said because the news of the Ebola virus was all everywhere, those he called were afraid to honour the invitation.

Parker added that none of them showed up
 at the hospital where Enemuo was being treated, stressing that Enemuo’s
 condition continued to deteriorate until he died after which body was 
taken to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital.

The commissioner also declared that the 
advent of the dreaded Ebola virus in the state was currently posing a 
challenge, saying the development was tantamount to a war time 
situation.

He said the Rivers State governor, Mr. 
Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, had pledged to provide funds to enable the 
state to procure all relevant materials as well as the services of 
medical experts from Nigeria and abroad to contain the virus.



Parker also said 60 more people who had 
secondary contacts with Koye were quarantined last night, bringing the 
total so far to 100.



Share your thoughts...thanks! 




Posted by



uSaveOne




at

9:34 AM
















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest












No comments:







Post a Comment
























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)












About Me




uSaveOne


Life + awareness blog.

View my complete profile
















Windows Live Messenger + Facebook

















Translate















Loading...












Followers

























Search This Blog


Loading...


















Share It
















Popular Posts



[Blue Film]: It's official, NollyWood Now into Porn Movie. Watch Video - Viewers Discretion Is Advised


[Outrageous!] Video: Ghanaian Woman Caught Having Sex In The Bush With BABY On Her Back 













Blog Archive





October (79)
      

September (170)
      

August (135)
      

July (6)
      

June (162)
      

May (246)
      

April (210)
      

March (264)
      

February (308)
      

January (140)
      

December (55)
      

November (291)
      

October (276)
      

September (293)
      

August (318)
      

July (77)
      

June (264)
      

May (320)
      

April (277)
      

March (273)
      

February (230)
      

January (98)
      

December (86)
      

November (85)
      

October (328)
      

September (218)
      

August (310)
      

July (281)
      

June (268)
      

May (225)
      

March (146)
      

February (79)
      

January (3)
      


































































copyright(c)2012-usaveone. Powered by Blogger.


































