Liberian medical officer in Ebola quarantine - CNN.com - Linkis.comLiberian medical officer in Ebola quarantine - CNN.com - Linkis.com






Log in












Linkis.com

http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/27/world/africa/ebola-liberia/index.html
Copy link
Copied




1




Ahmad AboSettah




                    "@cnnbrk: #Liberia's top medical officer is in #Ebola quarantine. "                
 
















18 days ago 


0















Open your Twitter potential and see the profit!
People are already having fun with Linkis.com, sharing links easily and customizing them in few simple
        clicks.
It's super cool automation feature does everything for you. Sit back and have fun while we make your tweets
        beneficial!
Connect and turn on Twitter automation



Experience instant customization!
Tired of manually customizing all the links in your Twitter feed? Meet our super-duper feature which makes it even easier to share!
Turn on Twitter automation


Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu




Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu



        Log in via social networks    







or






Comments are available for registered users only.Sign up and authorize our application.


Your account data is broken. You can fix it right now

We were unable to connect your Twitter account
Possible causes include:

Your Twitter password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Twitter account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Twitter… Log in via Twitter


We were unable to connect your Facebook account
Possible causes include:

Your Facebook password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Facebook account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Facebook… Log in via Facebook




        Share to social networks:
    






















Close

Close









