QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 2 | Peace Ben Williams BlogQUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 2 | Peace Ben Williams Blog





Categories


ARTICLES
Birthdays
DEEVA SIGHTINGS
DEEVACAM
Deevarazzi
Deevarized Look Of The Day
FASHION & BEAUTY
Fashion News
Foreign Gossip
Get Deevarized
Get The Look
GOSSIP & ENTERTAINMENT
Government & Politics
LIFESTYLE
Music
Naija Gossip
Red Carpet
Relationship
Religion
Rock It Or Trash It
Weddings
Who Wore It Better?
About PBW Blog
 

 

Hot Tags


About PBW Blog



More Menu

NEWS
Crime
Naija Gossip
Foreign Gossip




Menu

About PBW Blog





Search







Follow Us


Follow Us






Facebook Fanpage





Share


Tweet



































 Homepage » Story  » QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 2
QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 2







Post Tags
#ebolaoutbreak#wisdomwednesdaysebolaebola virusenclaveescapequarantinedstorywisdom wednesdays


Share This

Tweet







Pretty Posts

See WHY Forbes Listed Nigeria As Saddest Country On Earth
#EbolaOutbreak: US Agrees To Send ZMapp To Liberia After Sirleaf’s Emotion-Laden Phone Call To Obama
Peace Ben Williams Blog Wishes Americans A Happy 4th Of July
FG Endorses N5000 Note
Deeva Food Diaries 3: How To Set A Dinner Table






				By Peace
 -  August, 27th 2014

There was this small hair salon close to the street we lived in. It was owned by Mama Faith and she had foreign hair magazines for clients to choose a variety of hairstyles from. Ness and I would go there just to look through those magazines and dream of the day when we’d look as sophisticated as the models posing in it.
Mama Faith was a well-fleshed, boisterous and chatty woman who seemed to understand the follies of the young mind. Rather than shoo us away, she’d tease us; telling us how much we looked like those ‘Americana’ girls. I couldn’t tell with my juvenile mind if she actually meant it as a complement or if she was just being sarcastic. But our dreams came through in less than fifteen years.
Ness had a master’s degree in law and worked at a prestigious law firm. One day, Dave Onu walked into Friesland & Isibor Chambers to request for a lawyer to represent him in a corporate lawsuit. The firm appointed Ness to handle the case and the rest was history. Dave married her two years later. Now she was five months pregnant and preparing for a trip to America to put to bed.
I didn’t turn out badly myself. I had a master’s degree in media technology, I was working at a TV station but was planning seriously to leave and start a relationship and lifestyle talk show. I had big dreams of being Africa’s next Oprah. Things were also looking up in my love life. I was seeing Ime Akon, a filmographer working with a renowned wildlife organization.
This dashing young man had stolen my heart in totality. We’ve been dating for one and a half years and we both agreed to take things slow and see which shore our love would berth in. I remember when my mother asked me what Ime and I were still waiting for. I dared not tell her about taking things slow because I could clearly visualize her disapproving frown. She’d never fail to say, “Slow ‘gini’? What do you mean by “slow”? You’re still doing ‘slow’, when your younger sister is about to become a mother?!” Instead, I put on a sweet smile and promised her that Ime was bringing his people son to see Papa, a response which plastered my mother’s face with her classic broad smile.
Ime and I loved each other truly, madly, deeply and that was all that mattered. For now, the most important thing was focusing on my career. I didn’t want to rush into anything without knowing exactly what I was plunging into. Mama must have forgotten so soon what happened to our elder sisters in the hands of men.
Our first sister Ngozi was the prim and proper Catholic girl who followed every instruction Mama and Papa gave her. She met Stanislaus soon after she graduated from secondary school. He was a primary school teacher who owned a Vespa motor bike. In my parents eyes, he was a successful young man who had arrived. Of course they had to feel that way. He always bamboozled them with big English words while they stared on like he was some phenomenon from Shangri-la.
One time, Stanislaus took Papa on his motorcycle to Akapa market to buy tailoring accessories for his business. My father was beaming with pride that he was the father-in-law to a motor bike owner. I was called a devilish child for not joining in the family cheeriness, to thank God for finally smiling on us. Even as young as I was, I always saw the bigger picture. I always knew there were better options.
Stanislaus did the traditional wine carrying ceremony and paid the dowry on Ngozi’s head. As soon as he brought my sister into his home, her nightmare began. That Stanislaus saw Ngozi fit to warm his bed made her a little better than a slave. She wasn’t allowed to ride on his Vespa with him. After all, her father couldn’t afford one, he said. Every day, when he returned from work, he’d head straight to the soup pot to count the pieces of meat in it to see how many were missing. If it was more than one, his slave-wife would get the beating of her life.
 
Did you miss, QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 1? Click HERE to read.
Visit my blog next Wednesday to read the continuing part of the story. It only gets better.
Story Written By:  Peace Ben Williams
No part of this story should be copied or published without the permission of the author.
QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave ©2014
©Peace Ben Williams Blog. All rights reserved.
Photo Credits: National Geographic  | KenyaNurse.com | World Journalism
Tell your friends:FacebookTwitterEmailLinkedInPinterestGoogleTumblrStumbleUponRedditLike this:Like Loading...

Related
Comments comments


Tweet















Peace
Peace is a wife and mother who reports and analyses global trends from the perspective of a Deeva; in the hope of invoking a thought process that will lead to a positive change.



Related Posts






QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 1
Story 







“IF I SEE ONE MORE PENIS…” Written By Sisi Yemmie
Story 







QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 7
Story 






9 Comments to QUARANTINED: My Escape From An Ebola Enclave – Part 2






 



Ekaete Archibong on August 27, 2014 12:48:45


Peace, why are you whetting our throats? I can tell this story would be all i need on a sunday afternoon, curled up on the sofa.
The descriptions are subtle yet vivid and i can visualize every scene.
hmmmmm………I hate suspense


Reply








 



Peace on August 27, 2014 13:16:07


Then pray for the book to be published swiftly so you can buy it. Just thought I should start publishing on my blog, book manuscripts I’ve had with me for a while.


Reply








 



Ekaete Archibong on August 27, 2014 13:30:04


Peace, rest assured its been bookmarked on my prayer list. Been a while i read me a good book. Lawd knows i need one.


Reply












 



tina on August 27, 2014 13:01:24


I missed part one.heading there sharpily


Reply








 



diamond akpanika on August 27, 2014 13:59:43


Can’t it be quicker than next week. Your suspense is worse than in Macbeth, Peace.


Reply








 



Peace on August 27, 2014 14:05:38


Lol…Diamond. If more readers, demand that I make it a daily series, then I might just change my mind.


Reply








 



Ekaete Archibong on August 27, 2014 14:27:16


Peace consider this comment a DEMAND!!!!!!!!!


Reply








 



Peace on August 28, 2014 10:26:08


Actually, this story was published with the intention of filling the Deeva Prose/Wisdom Wednesday segment of PBWB which comes up every Wednesday. I’d appeal that you check back for the sequel  on Sept. 3rd, 2014. On that day, please check for the info below the story, it just might take off as a daily series from there.
Thank you for choosing Peace Ben Williams Blog.


Reply














 



Becky on August 28, 2014 13:44:25


Nice blog!


Reply













What did you think? Cancel reply










Subscribe to PBW Blog











TRENDING


5 Reasons You Should Have Sex With Your Husband Every Night



Bianka Johnson Bares It All For No Bra Day [SEE PHOTO]



Nollywood Actor, Clems Onyeka Killed By Stray Bullet [WARNING!!! GRAPHIC PHOTO]



Angry Wife Teams Up With Her Friends & Beats Her Husband's Mistress Naked On The Street [SEE PHOTOS]



This Man Divorced His Wife Because Of A Photo...Look At The Photo


 



FOLLOW MEMy TweetsLike Peace Ben Williams 


 










About PBW Blog


Copyright © 2013 PEACE BEN WILLIAMS. All Rights Reserved.
Designed byFameThemes





























Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address



Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







%d bloggers like this:























