
      Ebola causing huge damage to West Africa economies: development bank
| Reuters


      Ebola causing huge damage to West Africa economies: development bank
| Reuters






 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
World Cup
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video











































Article
Comments (2)
Video

























Ebola causing huge damage to West Africa economies: development bank

By Josephus Olu-Mammah and Umaru Fofana

FREETOWN  
Wed Aug 27, 2014 6:28pm EDT



2 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










                            Health workers wearing protective clothing prepare to carry an abandoned dead body presenting with Ebola symptoms at Duwala market in Monrovia August 17, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/2Tango












Related Video



UK Ebola victim treated with experimental ZMapp drug
Tue, Aug 26 2014




Windows on EbolaIsolated patients and staff seen through hospital windows in Spain.  Slideshow 


Related News


Ebola vaccine from GSK to begin U.S. clinical trials within weeks: sourcesWed, Aug 27 2014Baby may have infected Briton with deadly Ebola virusWed, Aug 27 2014Ebola travel bans threaten Ivory Coast cocoa crop forecastsWed, Aug 27 2014



Related Topics


Health »
Africa »






FREETOWN (Reuters) - The worst ever Ebola outbreak is causing enormous damage to West African economies as foreign businessmen quit the region, the African Development Bank said, while a leading medical charity branded the international response "entirely inadequate."
As transport companies suspend services, cutting off the region, governments and economists have warned that the epidemic could crush the fragile economic gains made in Sierra Leone and Liberia following a decade of civil war in the 1990s.At least 1,427 people have died of the deadly hemorrhagic virus since it was first detected in the remote jungles of southeast Guinea in March and spread quickly to neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone. Five people have also died in Nigeria.Air France, the French network of Air France-KLM said on Wednesday it had suspended flights to Sierra Leone after advice from the French government.African Development Bank (AfDB) chief Donald Kaberuka said on a visit to Sierra Leone he had seen estimates of a reduction of up to 4 percent in gross domestic product due to Ebola."Revenues are down, foreign exchange levels are down, markets are not functioning, airlines are not coming in, projects are being cancelled,Â business people have left - that is very, very damaging," he told Reuters late on Tuesday.Liberia has already said it would have to lower its 2014 growth forecast, without giving a new one. Sierra Leone Deputy Minister of Mineral Resources Abdul Ignosis Koroma said the government would miss its target of exporting $200 million in diamonds this year because of the Ebola outbreak. It exported $186 million of diamonds in 2013.He said miners were too afraid to go to alluvial diamonds pits in the Ebola-stricken east and tough border controls to curb the spread of the virus were also hurting the trade. Several international companies in the region have pulled out expatriate staff in recent weeks. Iron ore miner London Mining, whose only operating mine is in Sierra Leone, said recently that Ebola could hurt its production this year. The AfDB has announced $60 million to help train medical workers and purchase supplies to fight the outbreak. Some $15 million will be disbursed in September, Kaberuka said, voicing hope the donation would stop money being diverted away from other programmes such as education and agriculture.Medical charity Medecins Sans Frontier (MSF), which has been spearheading the healthcare response, said international efforts had been chaotic and entirely inadequate to the scale of the crisis. It said its new centre in the Liberian capital Monrovia had filled with Ebola patients shortly after opening."It is simply unacceptable that ... serious discussions are only starting now about international leadership and coordination," said Brice de la Vigne, MSF operations director. "Self-protection is occupying the entire focus of states that have the expertise and resources to make a dramatic difference."MEDICAL EVIDENCE VERSUS POLITICSKaberuka, echoing comments from governments of the Ebola-affected countries, said travel and trade restrictions imposed by airlines, shipping firms and neighbouring economies were increasing the economic hardship."I understand the countries which are posing restrictions ... but let us only do so based on medical evidence and not on political imperatives," said Kaberuka. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has repeatedly advised against such bans, warning they could cause food and supply shortages.Brussels Airlines said on Wednesday it resumed flights to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea after it was forced to suspend the routes at the weekend after Senegal refused to allow it to change its flight crews there.The airline, in which Germany's Lufthansa owns a 45 percent stake, said there were passenger waiting lists in all three countries and around 50 tonnes worth of emergency medical supplies waiting at Brussels airport to be transported."There is indeed a strong need for airline services to the countries," spokesman Geert Sciot told Reuters. "We're trying under extremely difficult circumstances to fill that role."In Nigeria, where five people have died after an infected U.S. citizen flew in from Liberia, the outbreak has been contained so far. "Nigeria is still at risk of Ebola because we still have one case and from this one case the risk of spread is there," Health Minister Onyebuchi Chukwu said, adding that the start of the school year, planned for Monday, would be delayed until Oct. 13 as a preventive measure.  Democratic Republic of Congo announced on Sunday a separate outbreak of Ebola in its remote northwestern province of Equateur and said it had killed at least 13 people. It was Congo's seventh outbreak since the disease - believed to be carried by bush animals - was first detected there in 1976."At this time, it is believed that the outbreak in DRC is unrelated to the ongoing outbreak in west Africa," the U.N. agency said in a statement, adding that samples had been sent to laboratories to determine the specific strain of the virus.  (Additional reporting by James Giahyue in Monrovia and Felix Onuah in Abuja; Writing by Emma Farge and Joe Bavier; Editing by Daniel Flynn, Gareth Jones and Cynthia Osterman)
FILED UNDER: 
Health
Africa







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints























We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (2)


GeoThermal wrote:
        
They should have left this disease “deep in the forests of southeastern Guinea” where they found it.

Aug 27, 2014 5:22am EDT  --  Report as abuse



Reality2Day wrote:
        
Five African countries with Ebola! Time the world got serious about a cure.

Aug 27, 2014 11:49am EDT  --  Report as abuse

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »














					Read



New Texas nurse with Ebola had fever on airliner
| 


3:34pm EDT 
Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project

1:09pm EDT 
U.S.-led air strikes intensify as Syria conflict destabilizes Turkey
| 


3:47pm EDT 
Hong Kong tycoon calls for protests to end after tension over police beating
| 


9:52am EDT 
Major indexes down more than one percent but off day's lows

3:20pm EDT 



















 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  













































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.





























