BBC News - Ebola crisis vastly underestimated, says WHOBBC News - Ebola crisis vastly underestimated, says WHO












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























15 August 2014
Last updated at 12:34


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola crisis vastly underestimated, says WHO


The WHO says the international response to the outbreak needs to be scaled up


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 The scale of the Ebola outbreak appears to be "vastly underestimated", the UN's health agency says, as the death toll from the disease reaches 1,069.
The World Health Organization said its staff had seen evidence that the numbers of reported cases and deaths do not reflect the scale of the crisis.
It said in a statement that "extraordinary measures" were needed.
The outbreak began in Guinea in February and has since spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria.









Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























The Ebola outbreak is taking its toll on regional economies



 However, the WHO said the risk of transmission of Ebola during air travel remained low, as the disease is not airborne.
As a consequence, Kenya Airways has rejected pressure to suspend its flights to the Ebola-hit states of West Africa.
Meanwhile, the international ratings agency Moody's says the Ebola outbreak - the world's deadliest so far - may have significant economic ramifications on the affected countries because commercial and transport disruptions are expected to last at least another month.
'Rampant fear'
The WHO said the outbreak was expected to continue "for some time".
"Staff at the outbreak sites see evidence that the numbers of reported cases and deaths vastly underestimate the magnitude of the outbreak," its statement said.


The Ebola disease is spread by contact with the bodily fluids of those infected

"WHO is co-ordinating a massive scaling up of the international response."
Part of the challenge was the fact that the outbreak was in "settings characterised by extreme poverty, dysfunctional health systems, a severe shortage of doctors and rampant fear", the WHO added.



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but the current outbreak is about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats are considered to be virus' natural host



In Nigeria - where four people have now died of Ebola - the residency training programme for doctors who work in government-run hospitals has been halted amid a nationwide doctors' strike that began in July.
BBC Africa's Chris Ewokor says the termination of the scheme - affecting an estimated 16,000 doctors - is likely to be linked to the ongoing strike as constitutionally other personnel are not allowed to be brought in to do their work.
With fears about the spread of Ebola, the authorities want to be able to bring military doctors into hospitals as part of contingency plans, he says.
The Ebola cases in Nigeria are linked to the late Liberian government employee, Patrick Sawyer, who brought the disease to the city of Lagos in July.
The outbreak is affecting the Youth Olympic Games about to start in China, as the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has ruled that athletes from Ebola-hit countries will not be allowed to compete in combat sports or in the pool, and Sierra Leone and Nigeria have withdrawn from the Games.
Ebola is transmitted by direct contact with the body fluids of a person who is infected. 
Initial flu-like symptoms can lead to external haemorrhaging from areas such as eyes and gums, and internal bleeding which can lead to organ failure. 



Ebola: Mapping the outbreak




 Outbreak of an undetermined viral haemorrhagic fever begins in Guinea in February
 Identified as Ebola in March
 Researchers have since traced the first case to the death of two-year-old Guinean child in December 2013





More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch














Related Internet links


World Health Organization




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites







Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












