 New Cases of Ebola in Congo | News | teleSUR New Cases of Ebola in Congo | News | teleSUR





 



Reportar Comentarios

Cerrar



Reportar un comentario
Estás reportando este comentario a la redacción

Debes completar todos los campos obligatorios para poder continuar.

 Los campos (*) son obligatorios


¿Por qué quieres reportar este comentario?:


Seleccionar un asunto...
Abuso personal
Ofensivo
Lenguaje inapropiado
Datos erróneos
Spam
Copyrights
Asuntos legales

*



Agrega algo más a tu reporte:



 ENVIAR 
 Cancelar 




 
 

Reportar Comentarios

Cerrar



Tu mensaje ha sido enviado con éxito.

 Cerrar 


 
 
 












Wednesday15OctoberArticle





Log in with:






Register





















Spanish

Home

News


Videos


Multimedia


Opinion


Blogs


I'm the Reporter


Programs


15 October 2014











teleSUR Agenda

Missing Ayotzinapa Students
/english/telesuragenda/Missing-Ayotzinapa-Students-20141014-0077.html


	                		/
	                		Bolivia Decides
/english/telesuragenda/Bolivia-Decides-20141009-0072.html


	                		/
	                		Bolivia in Motion
/english/news/Bolivia-in-Motion-20141007-0033.html


	                		/
	                		Brazil Decides
/english/telesuragenda/Brazil-Decides-20141001-0093.html


Subscribe to the bulletin














The e-mail is not valid

	        	You're successfully subscribed. We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.
	        











 Article 



















Embed code

Video size 560 x 315







Twitter 


Tweets de teleSUR 






















 

 





















News
 > World


New Cases of Ebola in Congo













Latest cases of Ebola are confimed in the Democratic Republic of Congo. (Photo: AFP)








Published  24 August 2014



















 We Recommend 











Health authorities from the Democratic Republic of Congo have confirmed the death of two new patients of Ebola.

Authorities from the Democratic Republic of Congo have reported that two people have died from Ebola, which marks the first cases of the virus outside of West Africa since the outbreak began earlier this year. 
However, it has not yet been confirmed as to whether the cases in the DRC are directly linked to the outbreak that originated in West Africa.
Several individuals have died in the past month after contracting feverish symptoms in the Equator region of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
On Sunday, Health Minister Felix Kabange Numbi reported that two of eight fever victims had tested positive for Ebola.
Thus far 1,427 people, including 100 health workers, have died from the virus.
Sierra Leone in particular has suffered greatly due to the recent outbreak, which has resulted in the death of over 335 people.  
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the current outbreak has primarily spread due to human-to-human transmission and failure to apply appropriate infection prevention. 
The WHO released a statement on Friday, which noted that the current medical infrastructure in many of the affected countries is vastly under-equipped to deal with the current outbreak. 
In efforts to control the further spread of the Ebola virus, the WHO urged the international community to provide an increase in the “quantities of staff, supplies, and equipment, including personal protective equipment that cannot keep up with the need.” 
The virus was first discovered by an outbreak in 1976, which up until now has been the worst outbreak on record. Since then, there have been five different strains of the virus.




 0


 0



Tags
WHO
Ebola










											    			by teleSUR/ns-OA











Related stories








US Troops Exposed to Decades-old Chemical Weapons in Iraq





Venezuela Begins Ebola Screening at National Airport





In 60 Seconds: Central America on Alert After 7.4 Earthquake





Mexican General Investigated for Tlatlaya Massacre





Vietnam War Vet Says Australian Troops Killed Civilians, And Covered Up the Act





Funding Shortfalls Mean Cuts to Food Rations for 1 Million Afghans





 Islamic State Enslaves Yazidi Women





Colombian Senate Says No To Allowance of Third Presidential Term





Chile Pushes for Closer Links Between Mercosur and the Pacific Alliance





China Expresses Concern Over India's Border Road













Related stories









US Troops Exposed to Decades-old Chemical Weapons in Iraq










Venezuela Begins Ebola Screening at National Airport










In 60 Seconds: Central America on Alert After 7.4 Earthquake










Mexican General Investigated for Tlatlaya Massacre










Vietnam War Vet Says Australian Troops Killed Civilians, And Covered Up the Act










Funding Shortfalls Mean Cuts to Food Rations for 1 Million Afghans










 Islamic State Enslaves Yazidi Women










Colombian Senate Says No To Allowance of Third Presidential Term










Chile Pushes for Closer Links Between Mercosur and the Pacific Alliance










China Expresses Concern Over India's Border Road

















Bulletin
Get our news bulletins straight to your inbox













The e-mail is not valid




Bulletin
You're successfully subscribed.
We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.






































Videos






















Comment

0




Sign In or Register to leave a comment, use the forums and more

Sign In
Register


Or log in with:

















Post with no comments.
































Back to TopLive


Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Full Site
















About teleSUR
About Us
Contacts
Team
Jobs teleSUR
Terms of Use
teleSUR Apps
Satellite Coverage
RSS
Public Procurement


Channels
Latin America
World
Sports
Culture
Opinion
Programs


Services
Multimedia
Blog
Join Us
Videos
Live Tv


Subscribe to our news bulletins













The e-mail is not valid
You're successfully subscribed. We sent you an e-mail to confirm your subscription.






© 2013 TeleSUR
La nueva Televisión del Sur C.A. (TVSUR) RIF: G-20004500-0





