How You Can Help Healthcare Workers in West Africa | National Nurses UnitedHow You Can Help Healthcare Workers in West Africa | National Nurses United













Search the Site
Search NNU







Sign Up for Updates
Email Address

Zip Code





Press
About






National Nurses United">

Home
About Us

CONTACT US
California Nurses Assoc.

Home
About
Contact
Facilities
Legislation
Ratios
News
Videos
Facebook
CHEU
Employment


DC Nurses Assoc.
NNOC State Affiliates

Florida
Illinois
Maine
Missouri
Nevada
Pennsylvania
Texas
CHEU
NNOC Home


Massachusetts Nurses Assoc.
Michigan Nurses Assoc.
Minnesota Nurses Assoc.
Veteran Affairs


Campaigns

RN-to-Patient Ratios

Join the Coalition


Insist on an RN

Nurses Heal America

Share Your Story
Read Stories


Main Street Contract

Get the Toolkit
Take the Pledge


Medicare For All

Sign the petition


Robin Hood Tax USA

Sign the RHT petition
Like RHT on Facebook
Join RHT on Twitter
Share RHT Photos
Share RHT Videos


Legislation

National Legislation

California Legislation

Congressional Scorecards




Organize With Us

Recent Victories
Become a Member
Organizing 101


Sign Up Here
NNU JOBS
CNA JOBS


Follow NNU

Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Share NNU Photos
Share NNU Videos
Share NNU Blogs
Get NNU E-alerts







Media

Media Center
Press Contacts
Press Releases
News Coverage
Blog
Nurse Magazine
Nurse Talk Radio


RNRN

RN Response Network

Join RNRN Volunteers




Donate to RNRN


RN Resources

Membership
CE Classes
Certificate Program
Scholarships
Nursing Practice
Research & Reports
Shop NNU Online


DONATE


Disaster Relief Fund
Become a Member






News
How You Can Help Healthcare Workers in West Africa
RNRN, 9/12/14


IMC Training on personal protective equipment in Sierra Leone.
IMC Training on personal protective equipment in Sierra Leone. Photo: International Medical Corps

The worst Ebola outbreak in history has now killed nearly 2,300 people,  and left 4,200 sickened in Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and  Senegal. The World Health Organization (WHO) is estimating that it will  take six to nine months to curtail the outbreak.
Ten percent of the deaths are healthcare workers. The  high proportion of nurses, doctors and other healthcare workers infected  during the current outbreak of Ebola in West Africa is “unprecedented”,  the World Health Organization has said.
The lack of protective gear for healthcare workers is putting their  lives at risk every day. A nurse in Monrovia, Liberia described the  nurses at her hospital cutting up old uniforms and tying them over their  faces, since they do not have respirators.
"It is really pathetic," she said. "We are not equipped to face the situation."
HOW YOU CAN HELP
RNRN is working with the International Medical Corps (IMC) to support their efforts to save lives by getting protective gear  to nurses and providing treatment on how to use the protective gear.
Please donate today to help provide protective equipment and training to healthcare workers in West Africa.
“This epidemic should not be seen solely as a West African issue but a  global issue. Ebola is an international crisis that requires swift,  international response. There is a severe lack of resources for the  Ebola humanitarian response, both for treatment and prevention.”
-- Rabih Torbay, Senior Vice President of International Operations for International Medical Corps








 
IMC has been delivering humanitarian support in the West African region  since 1999 and is responding to the current outbreak in Sierra Leone  and Liberia, where the Ebola outbreak is devastating the healthcare  systems. Healthcare workers continue to leave hospitals due to weak  infection control, lack of training and access to personal protective  equipment. There are few isolation units and lab testing facilities for  Ebola throughout the region. Also, those in need of primary healthcare  are not seeking help in fear of contracting Ebola at a health facility  or because those services are no longer available as many of the  facilities have closed. Furthermore, there is significant concern  regarding food security as people are not planting crops due to the  outbreak and food shortages are expected.
PLEASE HELP NOW
"The number of new cases is moving far faster than the capacity to  manage them in Ebola-specific treatment centers," the WHO said. The  insufficient staff and resources needed to treat Ebola cases is one of  the factors leading to the high infection rate among healthcare workers.
‘‘When you have too many patients, you have too much to do, you get  tired and when you’re exhausted, you make mistakes,’’ said Jorge  Castilla, an epidemiologist with the European Union’s Department for  Humanitarian Aid.
During a BBC interview, Dr. Gabriel Fitzpatrick discussed the pressure  health workers face on the front lines of Ebola. “Many of the inpatients  are former health care staff themselves,” he said. “We’ve had doctors,  nurses, laboratory technicians, ambulance drivers—a whole range of  health care staff from Sierra Leone and from this region being admitted  to this facility. It’s difficult when you see your health care  colleagues suffering from this terrible disease and in most cases dying  from it. It’s quite a difficult situation to work in.”
RNRN is working with groups on the ground – IMC, the World Health  Organization, and healthcare worker organizations in Liberia and Sierra  Leone -- to monitor the situation and bring aid to the nurses and  patients affected by this epidemic in West Africa.
Is Your Hospital Prepared for the Ebola Virus?
“This potential exposure of patients and health workers illustrates the  critical need for planning, preparedness, and protection at the highest  level in hospitals throughout the nation,” said Bonnie Castillo,  Director of CNA/NNU's RNRN.
Nurses are on the front lines of any public health emergency. Please  join us in gathering information about the level of preparedness in our  hospitals. Please take action to stem the tide of this terrible virus.
HERE'S WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP:

 Please fill out the survey so that we can better determine the safety standards in your acute care  hospital, and determine next steps to ensure the safest patient care.
 Donate to the RNRN's drive to protect nurses with Ebola patients.
 Review and share the Nursing Practice and Patient Advocacy Alert.

Ebola viruses are transmitted through direct contact with blood or  bodily fluids of an infected person, or through exposure to needles that  have been contaminated with infected blood or bodily fluids. Healthcare  workers must exercise extreme caution and follow CDC guidelines to  insure protection from the virus.
Thank you,
California Nurses FoundationRegistered Nurse Response Network 2000 Franklin St. Oakland, CA 94612
RNRN Disaster Relief Fund: National Nurses United  and the Registered Nurse Response Network (RNRN) work to send nurses to  disaster stricken areas both inside the U.S. and internationally. Please complete this secure donation form and share it with friends to ensure that RNs are among the first  responders. RNRN is a project of the California Nurses Foundation (CNF),  a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, and works in cooperation with the National  Nurses United (NNU). Donations are secure, and tax-deductible to the  extent of the law.
International, RNRNNews









Back to News »

Comments
View the discussion thread.blog comments powered by Disqus




Main Street Contract
RN-to-Patient Ratios
Medicare for All
RN Response Network


Like Us on Facebook
Follow Us on Twitter
View Our Flickr Photos
Watch Our YouTube Videos
Subscribe to Our Blog Feed
  

News in Your State

Sort by State
Alabama
Arizona
California
CHEU
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Idaho
Illinois
International
Kansas
Kentucky
Main Street
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
MIssissippi
MIssouri
Nationwide
Nebraska
Nevada
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
Ohio
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
RNRN
Veterans Affairs
South Dakota
Sutter
Tennessee
Texas
This Week in America
Vermont
Virginia
West Virginia
Wisconsin



 










Deborah Burger Speaks on Ebola »




National Nurse Magazine »





Home
About Us
Campaigns
Organize With Us
Follow NNU
Media
RN Heroes
RN Resources
Privacy

© 2010 - 2014 National Nurses United | 8630 Fenton Street, Suite 1100 Silver Spring, MD  20910 | T. 240-235-2000 F. 240-235-2019 Email



