Liberia: Riots Over Ebola Corpses Left to Rot in the Streets | Daily StormerLiberia: Riots Over Ebola Corpses Left to Rot in the Streets | Daily Stormer



Featured Stories
World
US
Jewish Problem
Race War
Society
Insight










 
Daily Stormer 

 



Home
Video
Radio
Donations
Contact
 





Liberia: Riots Over Ebola Corpses Left to Rot in the Streets

Marcus Cicero
Daily Stormer
August 10, 2014
Possessing an average IQ of 67, mentally retarded by most standards, this kind of event is hardly surprising. But, according to the Jews and Liberals, they are completely equal to us in every possible way.
A few days ago, we here at the Daily Stormer reported of incidences in which the liquefied corpses of Ebola victims were dumped onto the crowded streets of Liberia’s capital, Monrovia. No effort was made to practice even rudimentary hygiene standards pleaded for by the global medical community.
Now, we have reports that the Blacks of the region have resorted to violent rioting over what is being perceived as a slow response in collecting and disposing of the bodies left to rot in the tropical sun by their own birdbrained actions.
Liberian riot police were forced to quell a large demonstration of angry apes on Saturday, held despite orders to stay off the streets and limit person-to-person contact. The unrest managed to shut down one of the African nation’s busiest highways, integral to the movement of health personnel that are battling to prevent the virus from spreading further.
USA Today:
Ebola continued to take a toll in Africa on Saturday.
Riot police in Monrovia, Liberia quelled a demonstration that blocked one of the nation’s busiest highways Saturday as an angry crowd protested the government’s delays in collecting the bodies of Ebola victims.
Several bodies had been lying by the roadside for two days in the central town of Weala, 50 miles from the capital of Monrovia. Residents said no government agency had picked them up.
Nearly 300 Liberians have died from the virus, which is spread through contact with the bodily fluids of its victims, including touching or handling corpses.
The Liberian government has ordered that all Ebola victims be cremated.
…
Ebola is a severe and often fatal illness, with between 55% and 90% of those infected dying, according to the CDC. Death rates in Africa have been as high as 90%, WHO reported.
The Negro really is quite a comical creature, when one looks at their behavior with a critical mind. Instead of following the advice of those attempting to help them, they dump infected bodies onto streets frequented by tens of thousands, and then chimp out over the speed at which their own messes are cleaned up.
This really should serve as a wake-up call for those who still live according to antiquated and illogical Cultural Marxist theories regarding the equality of the races. The average Black is fundamentally useless in the realm of Western civilization and mores, and cannot be expected to live up to the standards set forth by superior intellects.

Africa Ebola Liberia 2014-08-10
Marcus Cicero

Share !


tweet






 




Related Articles









Silly, Stupid Goyim: Second Nurse Who Treated Diseased Ape Tests Positive for Ebola
October 15, 2014








Facebook Jew Mark Zuckerberg Pays $100 Million for Piece of Isolated Hawaiian Island
October 15, 2014








Ebola Failure: How Misled Whites are Upsetting the Balance of Nature Yet Again
October 15, 2014






			26 comments			
 



matt 	August 11, 2014 at 12:01 am



If things were allowed to progress naturally, they’d go extinct.

Reply






brummy 	August 10, 2014 at 10:46 pm



Without western aid Liberia will go extinct and who’d care?

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 9:54 am



To attack others because of that those others don’t look after you and clean up after you is a behaviour that can be dealt with using a just justice system that treats people regardless of race and has a self financed prison system that don’t let people back into society unless they can be guaranteed to not commit future crimes.
In this case though I don’t know if they actually attacked others. It just says that they had a demonstration that blocked one of the nations busiest highways.

Reply






ayr 	August 10, 2014 at 12:28 pm



Niggers do not understand this (justice, disease, logical actions). 
Why don’t you travel to apefrica and try to teach them. The most disgraceful part is that this these beast have brought unimaginable suffering on the Swedish people. You should be ashamed.
Their population is putting pressure on our beautiful society and all of nature …because of sentiments such as yours. Do you realize that Africa could be beautiful without the sewerage and disease, the waste, that is niggers.

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 3:13 pm



It is not blacks that have caused unimaginable pain and suffering to the Swedish people it is the fact that Swedish law is not designed to handle the situation that has caused pain and suffering. 
The only error in dealing with these Africans is the belief that they will change. A proper analysis and evaluation has to be done that is true. I think that many authorities are afraid of making an evaluation that is regardless of race because of that they are afraid of being called racists. This is what has to change.  Basically the individual has to be evaluated and not released into society unless it is not a danger to society.

Reply






Mac 	August 10, 2014 at 4:02 pm



The Swedish people have brought their own error and are being destroyed by it. Sweden will be an African hole in the future. It will be disorderly, corrupt, violent, and backwards.
Reality has more weight than left-wing fantasies. Imagine that.
You have no one but yourselves to blame.

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 4:23 pm



Its not left wing fantasies to treat people equal in front of the law. Its neither left wing fantasies to make objective and true evaluations of an individual regardless of race.










matt 	August 11, 2014 at 12:04 am



How about just make things simple and not allow blacks into Sweden?

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 11, 2014 at 7:46 am



Well I think that they should have to pay for their visas if they want to enter Sweden and have a recommendation from a local traveller agent. I also think that they should not be allowed to get a citizenship unless they have worked for many years in Sweden and have a recommendation from an employer.














Marcus Cicero 	August 10, 2014 at 2:44 pm



Race is everything when it comes to justice. The Negroes in that area have an average IQ of 67, and that is after factoring in the “smart ones.” 
They are not the same as us, were never the same as us, and will never be the same as us. Understanding that  logic is the first step toward actual justice.

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 3:19 pm



Well people with an IQ of 67 exist among white people too and our system has been able to deal with them.
Each individual can be evaluated individually by a self sustaining prison system.
For example you can have a prison system with ten levels in it. The first level being those closest to being released into society and the 10th level being those that are least likely to be released into society. Individuals can then be moved up or down in this system depending on how well they function without breaking any laws. They have to do all this while working physically to maintain the system itself. None will be moved up the ladder unless they behave peacefully for some time. And none is released back into society unless they really are not a danger to society.

Reply






Mac 	August 10, 2014 at 4:09 pm



People with an IQ of 67 are rare in White societies. They are not expected to function normally as adults and in no way are they given power to determine where society goes.
Blacks should not be given power over a society, nation, and people that is not theirs. An entire race of 85 IQ people cannot run a European country. Actually their IQ does not matter, they have no right to any part of Sweden or Europe, and anyone who disagrees should be exiled.
Plainly the blacks cannot function in a White society, which explains their massive levels of crime and disorder. Simply repeating “we need a color-blind system” ad nauseum is not a solution, which is why leftist systems fail when confronted with reality.
Black failure is guaranteed because of their lack of ability. The rules of the system will never be “equal” in outcome because the people they are mead up of are not equal.
The leftist response to this is to blindly quote more of your religious mantras about race not existing, while the Arabs and Afros rape and murder you into submission.
The swedes have abandoned Jesus and have gone whoring after the Baal of Equality. Now Baal is killing them.

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 4:25 pm



Equality is not a Baal. I am not saying that all people are equal. I am saying that all people should be treated equal by the law. There is a huge difference. There is nothing leftist about it at all.










Marcus Cicero 	August 10, 2014 at 4:09 pm



We actually have a similar system to this in much of the United States, although it is usually a three or four tier structure, as opposed to the ten you propose.
Our prison system is divided into maximum, medium, and minimum security facilities, with entry to each determined by the criminal offense of the inmate, and behavior while incarcerated.
Our parole system (supervised release) is also supposed to operate based on the danger, or lack of it, still posed by the inmate in question.
Despite this, the rate of re-offending among the Blacks and Hispanics is as high as 90 percent in most areas. 
One cannot legislate or artificially control impulse behavior, as these primitive races may have the best of intentions at first, but lash out in an instinctive manner at the drop of a hat.

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 4:27 pm



It just means whoever evaluated the prisoners likelihood to commit crimes again was not making a correct evaluation. It doesn’t mean the evaluation should be based on race.








Marcus Cicero 	August 10, 2014 at 4:47 pm



But, that is admitting that the vast majority of those conducting the evaluations were in error, and this is a trend that has continued for decades. When a system is that flawed, one should understand that the need for serious reform is needed.
Race needs to be used in any sort of criminal evaluation, due to the fact that the individual in question’s behavior, level of impulse control, and essential understanding of the concept of rehabilitation is tied to the biological realities of racial identity.
And yes, there are exceptions to the rule, but using this is like arguing that because a few tigers act tame and cuddly, we should ignore the fundamental differences between the tiger and domesticated house cat.
I sympathize with your idea that all should be treated equal before the law, although that cannot be done in a multiracial, multicultural atmosphere. Only in a racially homogeneous state can these policies be implemented, as one will eliminate the extreme genetic differences that exist between the racial groups.








Mattias Almloef 	August 10, 2014 at 5:14 pm



Your analogy with tigers is simply not true because tigers and cats are different species, human races are not. It is not true that only a racially homogeneous state can treat people equal before the law.








Marcus Cicero 	August 11, 2014 at 3:21 am



Your assumption about the human races being one and the same species is based upon false Marxist anthropology begun by the academic fraud Franz Boaz, a racial Jew unfortunately residing in the United States. He began spewing the nonsense lumping the Negro, Asian, and White races together into one categorical group, an idea that did not exist in academia before his appearance.
Even Charles Darwin, the “father” of the evolutionary theory, admitted quite frankly that there were extreme differences between the races living on this planet, originating from a genetic level. This was further supported by scientists aided by advances in technology and knowledge. 
If one studies the inherent differences between the races (brain size and structure, skull shape and orientation, chemical and hormone levels, muscle shape, size, and tone, behavioral and average intelligence differences, and immune system strength and responses to name a few) it is found that it would be more accurate to lump homo sapiens into several sub-species, if not entirely different species outright.
I would honestly recommend serious research into this matter, as you will probably enjoy the reading, and will almost certainly emerge with a new understanding of the subject.










matt 	August 11, 2014 at 12:14 am



Talk about the justice system all you want.  Why do you want to import ugly, violent people into your beautiful country?  What made you hate your own kind so much?

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 11, 2014 at 7:47 am



I am not interested in importing people at all.










Steven 	August 11, 2014 at 12:16 am



“Well people with an IQ of 67 exist among white people too and our system has been able to deal with them.”
Yes such people are made very useful to the powers that be by giving them jobs as politicians, social workers, cultural marxist intellectuals and in the media.  This explains why white countries are so screwed up.  The people running the show are morons!

Reply






Mattias Almloef 	August 11, 2014 at 7:49 am



Well national politicians in today’s system aren’t really working for the nations people but rather for a global system.
















Wolf 	August 10, 2014 at 9:51 am



I already found the cure for them  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-m5NvP_bya0

Reply






Crazy Englishman 	August 10, 2014 at 3:52 pm



You could have a whole Saturday nights entertainment watching compilations of these animals, we need a nationalists t.v channel.

Reply








Jonathon R 	August 10, 2014 at 9:48 am



The funny thing about jew lies, they can’t hold up to even slight academic scrutiny. 
If you read any NY Times book, then they’ll say what Big Jew tells them.  Real books, well, the truth is there if you can be halfway analytical.

Reply






Delhoghe 	August 10, 2014 at 7:21 am



Reading this article makes we want to go watch a free zombie movie at Jewtube. And I’m being serious. I’ve watched a whole bunch already. I am seriously going to Jewtube now.

Reply




Leave a Reply Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Name *
Email *
Website
Comment  You may use these HTML tags and attributes:  <a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <strike> <strong>  




 Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. 




 
 Ebola-Chan loves you!
 
 Please support us if you can.
Daily Stormer is 100% reader-funded.

One Time

Monthly













Monthly Donation Amount




More contribution options here.
Disclaimer
 We here at the Daily Stormer are opposed to violence.  We seek revolution through the education of the masses.  When the information is available to the people, systemic change will be inevitable and unavoidable.
Anyone suggesting or promoting violence in the comments section will be immediately banned, permanently.




This Week's Top Ten


What I Learned from My Time in Prison 8 comments 
Saturday Night Live Celebrates the End of the White Race 19 comments 
Fortress Defense Saga: Greg Johnson Joins the Assault on Our Base 222 comments 
Poll Friday: Is There Too Much Nazi Imagery on the Daily Stormer? 320 comments 
Australian Abos are Nearly Worse Than Blacks 114 comments 
Infinite DramaQuest: The Battle for the Soul of American White Nationalism Continues! 199 comments 
Anthony Cumia Comments on the Ferguson Kids Racist Video 64 comments 
Degenerate Artist Depicts Future Where Blacks Slaughter Whites on the Streets 80 comments 
Worried About Getting a Deadly African Virus?  You’re a Racist, Goyim 82 comments 
A Bowl of AIDS for Breakfast: Cheerios Runs Commercial with Faggots Molesting Kidnapped Monkey Child 143 comments 



Article Submissions and News Tips
 Submit original articles or send news tips our way:
[email protected]

Subscribe
 Enter your email address:
 
 


Subscribe to Comments

Our Writers
 
Andrew Anglin
Marcus Cicero
Benjamin Garland
Brett Light
Sven Longshanks

Recent Comments
Billy Ray Jenkins on Vulnerable White Teenagers All Over Britain are Being Targeted for Rape by Marauding Gangs of Non-White PervertsJoschka on New Holocaust Occurs as Swastikas are Drawn Outside a Yale University Residence HallRed Dawn on Silly, Stupid Goyim: Second Nurse Who Treated Diseased Ape Tests Positive for EbolaHitler Truth on Kesha Accuses Filthy Jew Producer Lukasz “Dr. Luke” Gottwald of All Sorts of Abuse and RapeVida on LOLWUT: More French Jews Joining ISIS 












 

			© Copyright Daily Stormer 2013, All Rights Reserved		







