Infectious disease experts concerned about Ebola mutating and becoming airborne -- Health & Wellness -- Sott.netInfectious disease experts concerned about Ebola mutating and becoming airborne -- Health & Wellness -- Sott.net






          Welcome to Sott.net
        


        Wed, 15 Oct 2014
      





Join us onSott Talk RadioEvery Sunday!







































Home
About
Podcast
Forum
RSS
Archive
Register
Login








































Health & Wellness















Infectious disease experts concerned about Ebola mutating and becoming airborne



CNNSat, 13 Sep 2014 05:04 CEST








A woman in Monrovia carries the belongings of her husband, who died after he was infected by the Ebola virus.    Today, the Ebola virus spreads only through direct contact with bodily fluids, such as blood and vomit. But some of the nation's top infectious disease experts worry that this deadly virus could mutate and be transmitted just by a cough or a sneeze.

"It's the single greatest concern I've ever had in my 40-year public health career," said Dr. Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota."I can't imagine anything in my career -- and this includes HIV -- that would be more devastating to the world than a respiratory transmissible Ebola virus."

Osterholm and other experts couldn't think of another virus that has made the transition from non-airborne to airborne in humans. They say the chances are relatively small that Ebola will make thatjump. But as the virus spreads, they warned, the likelihood increases.


Comment: There is some evidence that Ebola has already become airborne. The fact is, a number of health workers and researchers who have not had any direct contact with Ebola victims, have themselves become infected.


Every time a new person gets Ebola, the virus gets another chance to mutate and develop new capabilities. Osterholm calls it "genetic roulette."

As of Friday, there have been 4,784 cases of Ebola, with 2,400 deaths, according to the World Health Organization, which says the virus is spreading at a much faster rate now than it was earlier in the outbreak.
			                  
                    Ebola is an RNA virus, which means every time it copies itself, it makes one or two mutations. Many of those mutations mean nothing, but some of them might be able to change the way the virus behaves inside the human body.

"Imagine every time you copy an essay, you change a word or two. Eventually, it's going to change the meaning of the essay," said Dr. C.J. Peters, one of the heroes featured in "The Hot Zone."

That book chronicles the 1989 outbreak of Ebola Reston, which was transmitted among monkeys by breathing. In 2012, Canadian researchers found that Ebola Zaire, which is involved in the current outbreak, was passed from pigs to monkeys in the air.

Dr. James Le Duc, the director of the Galveston National Laboratory at the University of Texas, said the problem is that no one is keeping track of the mutations happening across West Africa, so no one really knows what the virus has become.

One group of researchers looked at how Ebola changed over a short period of time in just one area in Sierra Leone early on in the outbreak, before it was spreading as fast as it is now. They found more than 300 genetic changes in the virus.

"It's frightening to look at how much this virus mutated within just three weeks," said Dr. Pardis Sabeti, an associate professor at Harvard and senior associate member of the Broad Institute, where the research was done.

Even without becoming airborne, the virus has overwhelmed efforts to stop it.

The group Doctors Without Borders says Monrovia, Liberia, needs 1,000 beds for Ebola patients but has only 240, and it has had to turn patients away, sending them back to neighborhoods where they could infect more people.

This week, a Pentagon spokesman said the United States is sending a 25-bed field hospital to Monrovia.

"A 25-bed hospital with nobody to staff it? That's not the scale we need to be thinking about," Le Duc said. "It's an absolute embarrassment. When there was a typhoon in the Philippines, the Navy was there in 48 hours and had billions of dollars in resources."

Osterholm commended groups like Doctors Without Borders but said uncoordinated efforts by individual organizations are no match for Ebola spreading swiftly through urban areas.

"This is largely dysfunctional. Nobody's in command, and nobody's in charge," he said. "It's like not having air traffic control at an airport. The planes would just crash into each other."
		

Comment: Ebola is certainly out of control in western Africa and the rest of the world is in great peril. For a better understanding of this global threat see:

New Light on the Black Death: The Viral and Cosmic Connection
Black Death found to be Ebola-like virus















     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     Tweet
     
     







(Register to add your comments!)



Reader Comments





( No Comments )















Sections


Front Page
SOTT Focus
Best of the Web
Puppet Masters
Society's Child
Secret History
Science & Technology
Earth Changes
Fire in the Sky
Health & Wellness
Science of the Spirit
High Strangeness
Don't Panic! Lighten Up!
Topics ►





9/11
Animals
Comets
Comets and Catastrophe Series
Drought
Earthquakes
Extreme Temperatures
Fireballs
Floods
JFK Series
Plagues
Sinkholes
Smoking
SOTT Summaries
SOTT Talk Radio
Storms
Strange Skies
Strange Sounds
Volcanoes
Wildfires






RecentComments



Not surprising, if the govt says it's so, you know it most definitely is not.

gdpetti








perhaps ashamed of its mother tongue, it went in search of something sweeter to parody?

gdpetti








Would be more interesting if it 'disappeared' in an urban area... just to up the 'strangeness'...

gdpetti








Or as Malcolm X put it, they are the new Uncle Toms, or house negroes.... which really isn't...

gdpetti








Don't go there much at all, but the layout is very tight and congestive, which seems to imply a...

gdpetti


















Podcasts


Listen to ExclusiveSott Podcasts

        01:30:14
      
 Atando Cabos - Nro.1


All Podcasts

»









»





Éiriú EolasTake BackYour Life


Stress ControlHealing, andRejuvenation Program

Proven benefits of the Éiriú Eolas Program include:
- instantly control stress in high energy situations
- detox your body resulting in pain relief
- relax and gently work through past emotional and psychological trauma
- regenerate and rejuvenate your body/mind
Éiriú Eolas will enable you to rapidly and gently access and release layers of mental, emotional and physical toxicity that stand between you and a healthy, younger feeling and younger looking body!


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk
»






Knowledgeand Being



In this ground breaking multi-part video series, Laura Knight-Jadczyk discusses the history of the modern spiritual movement and the pitfalls and traps awaiting any would-be "channeler". She also provides a glimpse into the events that led to the beginnings of the "Cassiopaean Experiment".


Presented byLaura Knight-Jadczyk

»







SpecialReports



Meteorites, Asteroids, and Comets: Damages, Disasters, Injuries, Deaths, and Very Close Calls - Laura Knight-Jadczyk
Signs Meteor Supplement
Signs Supplement: The Flu Threat
Signs Supplement: Super Volcanoes






Sott.net Series on Comets & Catastrophe






Sott.netE-mailEdition




Subscribe
»





Sott FocusListing



Sott exclusive articles and in-depth investigations
By Author »





OtherLanguages



Artykuly po Polsku






Ark'sQuantumQuirks







  
  






















LatestAlternative News


 Second Texas health worker has tested positive for Ebola
 Pharmaceutical dumping poses risks to wildlife
 Scheduling psychiatrist appointments is even difficult for people with private Insurance or willing to pay out of pocket
 Doctors Without Borders loses 9 medics to Ebola
 NIH Director blames 'budget cuts' for lack of an Ebola vaccine
 Moderate levels of 'free radicals' found beneficial to healing wounds






Pictureof the Day






        
      










Quoteof theDay
A criminal is a person with predatory instincts who has not sufficient capital to form a corporation.

        - Howard Scott
      

















NEW! Earth Changes, Electric Universe, and much more, Earth Changes and the Human-Cosmic Connection is now available in hard copy and Kindle formats!
»






Updated 3-DVD version with English subtitles!
»






LAURA KNIGHT-JADCZYK AND JOE QUINN
Since the 9/11 attacks, no book has provided a
    satisfactory answer as to WHY the attacks occurred and who was ultimately responsible for
    carrying them out - until now.
BUY IT NOW!






ANDREW M. LOBACZEWSKI
Scientists living under an oppressive regime 
    decide to clinically study the founders and supporters of evil regimes to determine what common factor is at play in the rise and propagation of man's inhumanity to man.
GET A COPY!





SupportSOTT.net



Donate once,or every month!


Click here to learnhow you can help!
»






Read Laura Knight-Jadczyk's JFK Series





Songs ofThe Times


Still You Believe
You Lied
Relic
All The World's a Stage
Detergent






Blogs




 
 
 






Gulf StreamWatch



»





Spreadthe Word



Share these DESKTOP PICTURES, and help us vanquish these venal and virulent vermin vanguarding vice and vouchsafing the violently vicious and voracious violation of volition!
























>
      Email us at






      SupportSOTT.NET
    

      E-mails sent to Sott.net become the property of Quantum Future Group, Inc and may be published without notice.
    




      Donate once - or every month!Click here to learn how you can help


Reader comments do not necessarily reflect the views of the volunteers, editors, and directors of SOTT.net or the Quantum Future Group.
Remember, we need your help to collect information on what is going on in your part of the world! Send your article suggestions to: 
Some icons appearing on this site were created by: Afterglow, Aha-Soft, AntialiasFactory, artdesigner.lv, Artura, DailyOverview, Dellustrations, Everaldo, GraphicsFuel, IconDrawer, IconFactory, Iconka, IconShock, Icons-Land, i-love-icons, KDE-look.org, Klukeart, Mayosoft, mugenb16, NicolasMollet, PetshopBoxStudio, VisualPharm, VistaICO, wbeiruti, WebIconset, YellowIcon 

Original content © 2002-2014 by SOTT.net/Signs of the Times. See: Fair Use Notice















Contact Us




















