
Patient shows no signs of Ebola, discharged from Chennai GH - The Hindu

Patient shows no signs of Ebola, discharged from Chennai GH - The Hindu






 

 

 











 

Jobs
Today's Paper
Archive
ePaper
In-depth
eBooks
Classifieds
Mobile
Apps
Social









































SEARCH






















Home






 Full mobile number portability by March 31 
 


 Of ravaged houses and lost livelihood 
 


 Mangalyaan sends pictures of Mars moon Phobos 
 


 Ramdev claims cure for Ebola
 


Bangalore   |
Chennai   |
Delhi   |
Hyderabad   |
Kochi   |
Kolkata   |
Mumbai   |
Thiruvananthapuram   |
Vijayawada   



 News

Opinion




The economic consequences of Nehru

A call to burn history books has upped the ante as the 125th birth anniversa...  



 For a tree on every field boundary


Doctrine of graduated escalation

The India-Pakistan “peace process” has produced a lot of process over the de...  



 Everything Vedic in ‘Vedic Maths’



 Blogs   |
Cartoon   |
Columns   |
Editorial   |
Interview   |
Lead   |
Letters   |
Comment   |
Open Page   |
Readers' Editor   |
Views Unlimited   


  
Business






 Ashok Leyland to make electric, hybrid buses in India
 


 Fiat-Chrysler plans to launch Avventura this month
 


 India bans import of animal-tested beauty products
 


 Full mobile number portability by March 31 
 


Budget   |
Industry   |
Economy   |
Markets   |
Stock Quotes   



 
Sport






 Gooch rubbishes Pietersen allegations about Flower, Prior
 


 U-17 World Cup: FIFA, government assure help to AIFF
 


 Be mindful of your conduct: Modi to Asian Games medal winners
 


 Cricket’s next big-ticket destination is the U.S.
 


Cricket   |
Football   |
Hockey   |
Tennis   |
Races   |
Other Sports   |
Blog   



 
S & T






 Vultures may be rescued by their genetic diversity
 


 Sugarcane and Janaki Ammal
 


 Mangalyaan sends pictures of Mars moon Phobos 
 


 MAVEN beams first images from Martian atmosphere
 


Technology   |
Environment   |
Health   |
Science   



 
Features






 Brotherhood of the beard 
 


 The good and bad of fat
 


 ‘Impure’ Tamilians?
 


 Keep it in the family with Cabin
 


Cinema Plus   |
Downtown   |
Education Plus   |
Friday Review   |
Property Plus   |
Metroplus   |
Sunday Magazine   |
Young World   |
Blog   



 
Entertainment






 An etch in time  


 Spirit and style  


 Pipe dream  


 Breakfast with Ketan   


Art   |
Cinema   |
Dance   |
History & Culture   |
Music   |
Theatre   



 
Books






 Peter Carey bemoans expansion of Booker prize to US authors
 


 Role of learning in the economy
 


 Australia’s Richard Flanagan wins Man Booker prize with war story
 


 Know your English
 


Reviews   |
Authors   |
Columns   |
Literary Review   |
Know Your English   |
Children   



 

Data
 Education 
Videos
 
Shopping









Cities
Chennai


Infrastructure
 
Crime
 
Society
 
Leisure
 
Health
 
Events
 
Columns
 
Madras375
 

 



 Cities
» Chennai




CHENNAI,

August 10, 2014


 Updated: August 10, 2014 17:07 IST 


Patient shows no signs of Ebola, discharged from Chennai GH 





Zubeda Hamid


Comment

  ·  
print
  ·   T 
T  


T+  ·   T-
  
 


 

 Tweet

 






 


  


 

 



The Hindu
The isolation ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where a 25-year-old man has been admitted with suspected Ebola symptoms, in Chennai on Sunday. Photo: Zubeda Hamid
 
 



The Hindu 
A 25-year-old man who arrived in Chennai from Guinea by air on Saturday is suspected to have contracted Ebola and has been placed at the isolation ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (in picture) in Chennai. File photo
 
 




 

 






 INFOGRAPHIC
  Tackling the deadly virus


TOPICS
  disease 
  viral diseases 

  health 
  government health care 
  hospital and clinic 

  health treatment 
  medical procedure/test  


A 25-year-old man from Theni, who arrived in Chennai by flight from Guinea, was transferred to the isolation ward of the hospital. 


The 25-year-old man who was being monitored in an isolation ward at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for Ebola, was discharged on Sunday afternoon. 

Doctors said his vital signs and blood tests were normal and he showed no signs of the virus. "He wanted to go to his hometown in Theni district and visit his father who is ill. As he was asymptomatic, we sent him home in a 108 ambulance. However, he will be monitored by local health authorities there," said Dr. S. Raghunandan, deputy medical superintendent at the hospital. 

The man, who arrived on Saturday night from Guinea via Dubai, had been taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure.He was kept in the isolation ward of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where his health was being closely monitored by a team of doctors and staff who have taken the precautionary measures recommended. 

The person arrived from the Western African nation to proceed towards his home in Theni district of Tamil Nadu. A team of health workers who have been put at the airport to check all passengers arriving from the Western African region, where the Ebola virus spread has been reported by the WHO, detained the passenger on precautionary grounds and transferred him to the hospital. The flight arrived at 8.45 p.m. and he was quickly transferred to the hospital. He has been placed under observation in the isolation ward 215. 

Dr. Raghunandan told reporters earlier that a separate team of doctors and health workers have been deputed to observe the patient. They have all been provided with special goggles, gloves and boots which would be used while accessing the patient. 

"A blood sample of the patient was sent to Pune (National Institute of Virology) and the results are expected within the next 24 to 48 hours," the doctor added. 

The Union Health Ministry has opened a 24-hour "Emergency Operation Centre" from August 9, 2014. The helpline numbers are: 011-23061469, 23063205, 23061302. 


Symptoms


The virus spreads through blood, sweat, semen, vomit, urine and saliva. The symptoms of the disease include fever, headache, fatigue, vomiting and diarrhoea, stomach ache, joint pain and bleeding. 

To confirm the disease, the blood samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune. 




Keywords: Ebola virus, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital isolation ward


  

 RELATED NEWS
 Ebola could infect more than a million, US warnsSeptember 24, 2014  No case of Ebola in IndiaAugust 14, 2014  Highly-suspected Ebola case turns out to be negative August 13, 2014  Nigeria: Indian doctors wish to leaveAugust 12, 2014  UN calls for global response in Ebola fightAugust 13, 2014  Ebola virus: Screening intensified at Chennai airportAugust 11, 2014  Keeping Ebola in checkAugust 11, 2014  No Ebola case has been reported in India: Harsh VardhanAugust 9, 2014  Ebola scare: examination centre at two airportsAugust 9, 2014  Delhi passenger tests negative for Ebola virus August 9, 2014  Ebola virus disease sets off international concernAugust 6, 2014 
More In: Chennai | Health | Sci-Tech | Medicine | National | News 
 
  
 Tweet

 







 

  
  

 



 



 COMMENTS

Please Wait while comments are loading...


This article is closed for comments.Please Email the Editor 




































ChennaiConnect Newsfeed

Tweets by @ChennaiConnect




Slideshow



Jayalalithaa conviction: What posters say...


Posters seeking Jayalalithaa's release and one even hailing the judge concerned for the historic verdict, were seen across the State, unravelling a new facet of Tamil Nadu politics. Here is a collection of such posters... 






more slideshows
»






TN Energy Crisis




Coming to a standstill 











Tangedco buys power at high cost











Burden on the middle class 














The Hindu initiative
Friends of Chennai



If you have problem in your locality, solve it together as a city. Join Friends of Chennai, an initiative by The Hindu
»







Eating Out



A toast to artisan bread


 


A toast to artisan bread








Craving French baguettes and fresh loaves of focaccia? Head to Old Madras Baking Company » 



Looking beyond pandi curry






Looking beyond pandi curry








At the Kodava food festival, Susanna Myrtle Lazarus learns that there’s more to the cuisine than pork » 



Flavours of the Raj






Flavours of the Raj








Hotels across the city celebrate the best of Anglo-Indian cuisine » 



A food-walk with tradition






A food-walk with tradition








Apoorva Sripathi navigates the ancient streets of Mylapore, so that you know where to get luscious kozhukattais, brightly-coloured vadacurry, crunch sundal, and that perfect cup of filter coffee » 





Read More »

 


 Most Popular
Most Commented




End of an era as Aavin shuts down button paal
 
Chennai residents to pitch in on speedbreakers
 
Slow to pick up steam
 
New traffic arrangement in Velachery irks residents
 
Kollywood’s all-woman union going strong
 
Realtor hacked to death in front of father in Tiruvallur
 
British Airways to fly Dreamliner to London from Chennai, every day
 
Jayalalithaa conviction: Protests, prayers across TN
 
Miraculous escape for one-year-old in Chennai
 
Water supply affected on OMR as tankers go on strike
 


 






Crime
Drunk driving kills three pavement dwellers

 Miraculous escape for one-year-old in Chennai
 Chennai teenager held for selling wild animals on the web

 15-year-old boy surrenders in psychologist murder case
 Constable murder: wife, colleague held

 Police busts gang involved in selling temple idols
 Realtor hacked to death in front of father in Tiruvallur

 Four held for murder of electrician in Perumbakkam 
 27-year-old man murders friend after drunken brawl

 Man hacked to death in Vyasarpadi

Society
Slow to pick up steam

 Kollywood’s all-woman union going strong
 End of an era as Aavin shuts down button paal

 The narrowing radius of mobile libraries
 Water supply affected on OMR as tankers go on strike

 British Airways to fly Dreamliner to London from Chennai, every day
 ‘Compensation, an uphill task’

 Moulivakkam case: HC concerned about chargesheet 
 Wholesale tomato prices drop to Rs. 10/kg

 Kalakkal Café: An inclusive space for hanging out

Health
Conjunctivitis cases soar in Chennai 

 Liver disorder strikes young, say doctors
 A shop of his own, a disease to win over

 Chennai hospital gets certification from national board 
 ‘Don’t self-medicate for pain in your joints’

 Advanced imaging tech helps ill woman
 For a new generation of mental health pioneers 

 What’s your bone density? 
 ‘Investigate link between second-hand smoking, cancer’

 28-year-old brain-dead woman’s organs donated 

















Group Sites
The Hindu தி இந்து Business Line Sportstar Frontline The Hindu Centre The Hindu Hub Images Classifieds RoofandFloor 



Today's Paper ePaper
This Day That Age
Crossword
Archive
Obituary









 OPEN


close
Recent Article in Chennai

Kurosawa classics to be screened 	Eight films of Akira Kurosawa, Asia’s most celebrated filmmaker, will be showcased at the six-day ‘Kurosawa Film Festival’, which was in... » 



 

The Hindu:

Home |

News |

Opinion |

Business |

Sport |

S & T |

Features |

Entertainment |

Books |

In School |

Data |

Education |

Videos |

Shopping |

The Site:
|
About Us
|
Terms of Use |
Privacy Policy |
Contacts
|
Archive
|
Subscription
|
RSS Feeds
|
Site Map

Group Sites: 
The Hindu |
தி இந்து |
Business Line |
Sportstar |
Frontline |
The Hindu Centre |
The Hindu Hub |
RoofandFloor |

Publications |
eBooks |
Images |
Classifieds |


 Comments to: web.thehindu@thehindu.co.in
 Copyright© 2014, The Hindu

 







 


 















