BBC News - Ebola outbreak: A great challenge to modern medicineBBC News - Ebola outbreak: A great challenge to modern medicine












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada



















 
        Media playback is unsupported on your device           Ebola outbreak: A great challenge to modern medicine 17 September 2014 Last updated at 18:08 BST   The fight against the deadly Ebola virus is shaping up to be one of the greatest challenges modern medicine has faced in many years.So far, more than 2,400 people have died in West Africa, in an outbreak which began in Guinea in February.It has brought about an outpouring of international offers of support, including military personnel from the United States who will be deployed to Liberia.The offer has been welcomed by the country's president, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf, who said she hoped it would "spur the rest of the international community into action".The BBC takes a look at the scale of the challenge.
 Read more   Obama says Ebola outbreak a 'global security threat'     Ebola crisis: Five ways to break the epidemic     Ebola: Mapping the outbreak          


        Share this story        About sharing




Email




Facebook




Twitter




             Related   Most watched   Top stories      Related video / audio       video 1:33   Healthy Britons given Ebola vaccine 17 September 2014
       video 1:40   'I volunteered for trial Ebola vaccine' 17 September 2014
       video 1:02   In 60 seconds: What is Ebola? 14 October 2014
       video 2:00   UN security council to discuss Ebola 16 September 2014
       video 0:57   Obama: Ebola 'spiralling out of control' 16 September 2014
       video 0:15   How to avoid Ebola - in 15 seconds 27 August 2014
       Most watched       Top stories       World       UK       Business       Politics       Health       Science &amp Environment       Technology       Entertainment         







Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































     












