#Ebola crisis: 'world is losing the battle' #Ebola crisis: 'world is losing the battle' 






Wednesday,
							October
15,
							2014



 
 

Text Size




 



 









Site Search powered by Ajax















 








Home





Submission Policy




Sitemap




Our Mission




Search




Privacy Policy




Terms




Archive







Focus





Analysis




Photos




Editorial




Videos




Politics




Letters to Editor




Interactive







News





Africa




Americas




Asia-Pacfic




Central/S. Asia




Europe




Middle East




Business




Sports







Columnists




Blog




Support





Recommend MWC




Donate




Campaign







Internship




Hangout
























News  Africa  #Ebola crisis: 'world is losing the battle' 







#Ebola crisis: 'world is losing the battle' 





| Print | E-mail 


						Tuesday, 02 September 2014 10:10					




By Agencies 


 Share Link: 	
















View Comments


The Ebola outbreak in West Africa will not be stopped unless wealthy nations intervene to contain the virus, the head of a leading a medical charity has said.
Joanne Liu, of Doctors Without Borders, said on Tuesday that authorities were "losing the battle", and that the world had ignored the gravity of the epidemic.
"Six months into the worst Ebola epidemic in history, the world is losing the battle to contain it. Leaders are failing to come to grips with this transnational threat," she said.
"The [World Health Organisation] announcement on August 8 that the epidemic constituted a 'public health emergency of international concern' has not led to decisive action, and states have essentially joined a global coalition of inaction."
Liu called for a global biological disaster response, including funding for more field hospitals, trained civilian or military medical personnel and mobile laboratories in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. 
She said in her statement that "any military assets and personnel deployed to the region should not be used for quartine, containment or crowd control measures as forced quarantines have only bred fear and unrest.
At least 1,550 people have been killed by the disease in the three countries, including more than 120 health workers. Nigeria and Senegal have also reported deaths.
Tom Frieden, the director of the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, also told media on Tuesday that the outbreak was "spiralling out of control".
"The situation is bad and it looks like it's going to get worse quickly. There is still a window of opportunity ... but that window is closing, and we need to act now," he told NBC News channel.
Meanwhile, scores of health workers in Liberia's main hospital in Monrovia have gone on strike claiming they have not been paid for two months.
The protest follows a one-day strike over pay and conditions at the Connaught hospital in Sierra Leone's capital on Monday.
Reuters also reported that staff at the main Ebola clinic in Kenema, eastern Sierra Leone, also walked off the job last week in protest at conditions.
Meanwhile, the death toll from an outbreak of a seperate strain in the Democratic Republic of Congo as killed 31 people, the government said on Tuesday.
The WHO said that the outbreak in northern Congo's Djera region was "distinct and independent even, with no relationship to the outbreak of West Africa".
The Zaire strain of the deadly virus is indigenous to Congo and there have been seven outbreaks in the country since it was first discovered there in the remote Equateur province in 1976.







View the discussion thread.

blog comments powered by Disqus


back to top






Subscribe via RSS or Email:












< Prev


					 
				

Next >



 








Most Read Articles



			Erdogan leads Turkey into Civil War



			Beyond the Façade: The Anatomy of Injustice



			Towards One Quadrillion US Dollars in Derivatives



			Israel, Here Comes The End



			Biden Told the Truth

 





Most Read News



			#ISIL bid to storm Syrian town repelled 



			#India braces for powerful Cyclone Hudhud 



			#WHO finds 70 percent #Ebola mortality rate



			Triple suicide attack hits Kurds in #Iraq



			#China cult duo to die for restaurant murder 



			#ISIL 'publicly executes Iraqi journalist'

 
















Spotlight

Iraq Live Blog
 Syria Live Blog 
Ukraine Live Blog
 





Make a donation to MWC News



Enter Amount:$CAD
USD
GBP
AUD
JPY
EUR


One Time
Weekly
Monthly
Annual








Related




		 	UN medical worker dies of #Ebola in #Germany 			



		 	US official calls for #Ebola control 'rethink'			



		 	#WHO finds 70 percent #Ebola mortality rate			



		 	Strike over #Ebola pay hits #Liberia hospitals 			



		 	First US #Ebola infection adds to concern 			



		 	Scary Masks			







Featured_Author

Francis Boyle 




Opinion









				Momentum for Palestinian Statehood			





			Stephen  Lendman                        
		








				Yes to Palestine, say British MPs			





			Gilad Atzmon                        
		








				With 'Victories' Like WWII, Who Needs Losses?			





			Jacob Hornberger                        
		








				Diplomacy, immunity and justice			





			Toby Cadman                        
		








				Scary Masks			





			Will Durst                        
		








				Questioning Sweden’s 'Bold' Diplomatic Initiative			





			Richard Falk                        
		








				Crusaders and Zionists			





			Uri Avnery                        
		








				Erdogan leads Turkey into Civil War			





			K.Gajendra Singh                        
		








				Towards One Quadrillion US Dollars in Derivatives			





			Ben Tanosborn                        
		

 




Login



 Username

 Password







 Remember me

 Forgot login?
 Register
 





Media With ConscienceJavaScript must be enabled in order to use KA Facebook Fanbox. Refresh Page. 













					dish network wesley iowa

















Subscribe to MWC News AlertEmail Address

































About MWCFocusNewsContactTerms & ConditionsPrivacy Policy 

Back to Top






This work by MWC News is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported License.Based on a work at mwcnews.net.Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available at mwcnews@gmail.com. 








