CDC Ebola Surge – 2014 | Media Statement - Fact Sheet | CDC Online Newsroom | CDCCDC Ebola Surge – 2014 | Media Statement - Fact Sheet | CDC Online Newsroom | CDC

Skip directly to search
Skip directly to A to Z list
Skip directly to navigation
Skip directly to site content
Skip directly to page options




CDC Home

CDC 24/7: Saving Lives. Protecting People.™




Search The CDC












 Note: Javascript is disabled or is not supported by your browser. For this reason, some items on this page will be unavailable. For more information about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov.





CDC Newsroom















ShareCompartir







Fact Sheet



For Immediate Release: Tuesday, September 16, 2014
Contact: 
                                    Media Relations
									(404) 639-3286





CDC Ebola Surge – 2014
The 2014 Ebola outbreak is the largest in history and the first  Ebola outbreak in West Africa. This outbreak is actually the first Ebola epidemic the world has ever known — affecting multiple countries in and around West Africa. Although  the current epidemic does not pose a significant risk to the U.S. public, CDC  is taking precautions at home in addition to its activities abroad. 

					  The  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) brings a rare skill to the this  daunting public health challenge—nearly 40 years of fighting Ebola outbreaks in  Africa. CDC’s elite force of virus hunters on the front lines is supported by specialized  public health teams in the field and at the CDC Atlanta headquarters; together,  they offer unrelenting help to save lives and protect people. CDC works closely  with Ministries of Health and other partners.

					  CDC’s  unparalleled knowledge of Ebola—how it spreads, how it kills, how to find it,  and how to stop it—supports the World Health Organization’s growing West Africa  Ebola response. Since July, the United States has escalated its support, with  multiple U.S. government agencies joining other domestic and international  partners, but more is needed. 

 “The sooner the world comes together to help  West Africa, the safer we all will be. We know how to stop this outbreak. There  is a window of opportunity to tamp this down—the challenge is to scale up the  massive response needed to stop this outbreak.”  CDC Director, Tom Frieden, M.D., M.P.H, Sept.  2, 2014
CDC’s response to Ebola is the  largest international outbreak response in CDC’s history.   Today, CDC has more than 100 disease detectives on the ground in West  Africa, supported by hundreds of public health emergency response experts  stateside. CDC teams are deployed from the CDC 24/7 Emergency Operations Center  (EOC), activated at Level 1, its highest level, because of the significance of  this outbreak. Each team is flexibly composed to match talents and expertise  with critical needs in country:

CDC’s disease detectives find emerging cases to identify contacts and stop further transmission with isolation and improved infection control practices
CDC’s lab scientists diagnose Ebola cases and crack Ebola virus DNA codes to map outbreak connections
Outbreak control specialists find patterns of spread and population vulnerabilities so scarce resources can be deployed more efficiently 
CDC’s Ebola outbreak veterans lead with expert guidance to national and international counterparts and new recruits in the Ebola fight
Health risk communication specialists fight rumors, stigmatization and unsafe practices in real time
Emergency operations teams bring incident management expertise to organize complex efforts.

Establishing  Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs). CDC supports countries establish national  and sub-national EOCs. All 3 West African countries at the center of the  epidemic now have an Incident Manager, reporting to the President of the  country, to lead efforts.  

Strengthening  surveillance and epidemiology.  CDC helps countries  track the epidemic, including using real-time data to improve real-time  response (e.g., identifying the epicenter and tracking the response). 

Improving  case finding and contact tracing. CDC strengthens efforts in West Africa to  investigate cases and track their contacts. CDC helps interview people who may  have been in contact with Ebola patients to see if they have symptoms and  monitor them for 21 days. A single missed contact can start another chain of  transmission.

Supporting laboratory networks. CDC is operating and supporting labs in the region to  improve diagnosis. CDC is also testing samples from people with suspected Ebola  from around the world, and, with Department of Defense support, helped 12 labs  around the US gain the capacity to test for Ebola within hours.

Strengthening  health care systems.  CDC leads infection  control training for health care workers and safe patient triage throughout the  health care system, communities, and households. 

Improving health communication.  CDC health communicators  and public health advisors in Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Liberia are working  with country embassies, UNICEF, WHO, MSF, other NGOs and Ministries of Health  to improve health information.

Coordinating with partners and  facilitating involvement by public health organizations around the world.  CDC is working closely with USAID’s Office of  Foreign Disaster Assistance, to support the deployment of a Disaster Assistance  Response Team.  CDC is also facilitating assistance by critical  organizations such as the African Union, which will mobilize at least 150 staff  (including doctors, nurses, epidemiologists and health educators) to support  the response.  CDC also works closely  with non-governmental organizations on many aspects of the response. 

Advising travelers on how to protect  their health and preventing sick travelers from getting on planes. CDC works with airlines,  airports, and Ministries of Health to provide technical assistance for exit  screening and travel restrictions in affected areas to prevent sick travelers  from getting on planes. CDC also works with airlines to address crew and  airline staff concerns while ensuring that humanitarian and public health organizations  can still travel to affected countries.

Increasing  U.S. preparedness for Ebola. CDC is educating U.S. health care providers  to consider Ebola if symptoms are present within 3 weeks of a traveler  returning from West Africa; issuing infection control guidance for hospitals to  prevent further spread to health care workers and communities; strengthening laboratory  networks and existing surveillance systems; and enhancing capabilities at U.S.  points of entry. 

Innovating. CDC has confronted Ebola on  its home turf since 1976, and each time, CDC’s innovative experts have adapted their  tactics to the reality on the ground. CDC  is currently involved in ground-breaking activities, such as research on safe, more comfortable personal protective  equipment; whole genome sequencing and analysis; monitoring for mutation  patterns or changes in transmission; and supporting agencies conducting vaccine  trials.

CDC Foundation. The CDC Foundation is assisting  CDC by providing critical assistance and supplies through donations to the  Foundation’s Global Disaster Response Fund, which enables CDC staff to respond  quickly to changing circumstances and needs. 
###
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
 





 







Print page





Listen to Audio/Podcast
Newsroom RSS Feed
Formatted Articles RSS Feed



View page in


Español (Spanish)

















Get email updates
To receive email updates about this site, enter your email address:




Enter Email Address

Submit Button

What's this?








Contact Us:

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                    1600 Clifton Rd
                    Atlanta, GA 30333
800-CDC-INFO
                    (800-232-4636)
                    TTY: (888) 232-6348

Contact CDC-INFO








Newsroom Home

Press Materials

News Releases
Digital Press Kit

2013 Archive
2012 Archive


Features

Have You Heard?

2013 Archive
2012 Archive
2011 Archive
2010 Archive
2009 Archive
2008 Archive


Formatted Articles

Diseases & Conditions
Healthy Living
Injury, Violence & Safety
Life Stages & Populations

Seasonal Articles


Story Ideas

2014 Archive
2013 Archive
2012 Archive
2011 Archive
2010 Archive
2009 Archive
2008 Archive


African-American Media Resources

Leadership & Experts




Press Kit


Journal Summaries

EID Summaries
MMWR Summaries


Images

Buildings & Facilities
Disease Agents
Leaders & Scientists
Disease Prevention


Audio/Video

CDC B-Roll
MMWR Videos
Press Briefing Archives


CDC Spokespersons

Michael J. Beach, PhD
Michael Bell, MD
Christopher R. Braden, MD (CAPT USPHS)
Daniel B. Jernigan, MD, MPH (CAPT, USPHS)
Katherine Lyon-Daniel, PhD
Jennifer McQuiston, DVM, MS (CAPT, USPHS)
Arjun Srinivasan, MD (CAPT, USPHS)



Facts About CDC

Calendar Resources
Resources 


Contact Us

Frequently Asked Questions







CDC Quick Links

CDC In The News
Data & Statistics
Freedom of Information Act Office
Public Health Image Library (PHIL)









File Formats Help:










How do I view different file formats (PDF, DOC, PPT, MPEG) on this site? 



Print

Updates
Subscribe
Listen





Page last reviewed: 
September 16, 2014

Page last updated:  September 16, 2014
Content source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention







Home
A-Z Index
Policies
Using this Site
Link to Us
Contact CDC




Centers for Disease Control and Prevention   1600 Clifton Road Atlanta, GA 30329-4027, USA
		800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636)	TTY: (888) 232-6348 - Contact CDC–INFO



A-Z Index

A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
#
























