President Obama to the International Community: We Must Do More to Fight Ebola | The White HousePresident Obama to the International Community: We Must Do More to Fight Ebola | The White House
Skip to main content | Skip to footer site map





the White House  President Barack Obama


Contact Us
Get Email Updates





Main Menu

Home

Briefing RoomFrom the News RoomLatest News
Share Worthy
Photos
Video Gallery
Live Events
Music & Arts Performances


From the Press OfficeYour Weekly Address
Speeches & Remarks
Press Briefings
Statements & Releases
White House Schedule
Presidential Actions
Legislation
Nominations & Appointments
Disclosures




IssuesPopular TopicsYear of Action
Climate Change
Raise the Wage
Tax Receipt
See All


Top IssuesEconomy
Education
Foreign Policy
Health Care
Immigration


MoreCivil Rights
Defense
Disabilities
Ethics
Equal Pay
Homeland Security
Refinancing
Rural


MoreService
Seniors & Social Security
Taxes
Technology
Urban and Economic Mobility
Veterans
Violence Prevention
Women




The AdministrationPeoplePresident Barack Obama
Vice President Joe Biden
First Lady Michelle Obama
Dr. Jill Biden
The Cabinet
Senior White House Leadership


Executive OfficesOffice of Management and Budget
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative
Office of Science and Technology Policy
Council of Economic Advisers
Council on Environmental Quality
See All


InitiativesLet's Move
Joining Forces
1 is 2 Many
Startup America


Special EventsState of the Union 2013
Inauguration
Medal of Freedom




ParticipateDigitalFollow Us on Social
We the Geeks
Hangouts
Office Hours
Mobile Apps
Developer Tools


Join UsTours & Events
Administration Jobs
WH Internships
WH Fellow
Innovation Fellows


Speak OutWe the People Petitions
Contact Us
Citizens Medal
Save Award
Nominate a Champion of Change
My Front Porch




1600 PennInside the White HouseInteractive Tour
West Wing Tour
Video Series
Décor and Art
Holidays
See All


History & GroundsPast Presidents
Past First Ladies
VP Residence
Eisenhower Building
Camp David
Air Force One


Our GovernmentThe Executive Branch
The Legislative Branch
The Judicial Branch
The Constitution
Federal Agencies & Commissions
Elections & Voting
State & Local Government
Resources





 

    Search   


 
 



Home • The White House Blog

 








 

The White House Blog
Subscribe






 




  	  	  
  	    	  
  	        	Our Top Stories            
      



President Obama Joins International Military Leaders to Discuss Coalition Efforts Against ISIL




Weekly Address: America Is a Place Where Hard Work Should Be Rewarded




"The Geography of Hope": President Obama Designates the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument




President Obama Congratulates Malala Yousafzai and Kailash Satyarthi on Winning the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize





 

 



President Obama to the International Community: We Must Do More to Fight Ebola



Tanya SomanaderSeptember 25, 2014  02:35 PM EDT 

Share This Post






Watch on YouTube
The Ebola outbreak afflicting West African countries is now an epidemic of unprecedented proportions. President Obama has made combating this terrible disease a top national security priority and today, at the United Nations, he called on the world to join the United States in this effort.
Ebola is a horrific disease. It’s wiping out entire families.  It has turned simple acts of love and comfort and kindness -- like holding a sick friend’s hand, or embracing a dying child -- into potentially fatal acts. If ever there were a public health emergency deserving an urgent, strong and coordinated international response, this is it.

The President noted how the public health systems in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea have collapsed, making the outbreak a regional and potentially global threat. Health workers on the front lines are in desperate need of more aid – from beds, to supplies, to more helping hands.


"One health worker in Sierra Leone compared fighting this outbreak to 'fighting a forest fire with spray bottles.' But with our help, they can put out the blaze."

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is launching the largest international response in its history. President Obama has also directed the U.S. military to establish a command in Liberia which is now up and running, moving in personnel, equipment, and supplies. The U.S. is working with Sierra Leone to create an air bridge that will get health workers and medical supplies to the region faster, and we’re setting up new treatment centers, a field hospital, and a training facility to help bolster the number of health workers on the ground.
The U.N. also announced a new mission for Ebola Emergency Response to bring all of the U.N.’s resources into the fight. “So this is all progress, and it is encouraging,” the President said. "But I want us to be clear: We are not moving fast enough." 
Right now, everybody has the best of intentions, but people are not putting in the kinds of resources that are necessary to put a stop to this epidemic. There is still a significant gap between where we are and where we need to be. We know from experience that the response to an outbreak of this magnitude has to be fast and it has to be sustained.  It’s a marathon, but you have to run it like a sprint. And that’s only possible if everybody chips in, if every nation and every organization takes this seriously. Everybody here has to do more.
International organizations have to move faster, and cut through red tape and mobilize partners on the ground as only they can. More nations need to contribute critical assets and capabilities -- whether it is air transport, or medical evacuation, or health care workers, or equipment, or treatment. More foundations can tap into the networks of support that they have, to raise funds and awareness. More businesses, especially those who already have a presence in the region, can quickly provide their own expertise and resources, from access to critical supply chains to telecommunications. And more citizens -- of all nations -- can educate themselves on this crisis, contribute to relief efforts, and call on their leaders to act.  So everybody can do something. That’s why we’re here today.



 
    President Barack Obama delivers remarks on the Ebola epidemic during a meeting chaired by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon at the United Nations in New York, N.Y., Sept. 25, 2014.

    
        
                  
              
    (Official White House Photo by Pete Souza)  

From fighting the current epidemic to preventing future threats, the President called on the international community to give these public health threats the urgency they require. That is why he is hosting 44 nations in Washington, D.C. next week to advance the Global Health Security Agenda. 
The outbreak is such where at this point more people will die. But the slope of the curve, how fast we can arrest the spread of this disease, how quickly we can contain it is within our control. And if we move fast, even if imperfectly, then that could mean the difference between 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 deaths versus hundreds of thousands or even a million deaths.

"Do not stand by, thinking that somehow, because of what we’ve done, that it’s taken care of," the President said to the gathered nations. "It’s not. And if we don’t take care of this now, we are going to see fallout effects and secondary effects from this that will have ramifications for a long time, above and beyond the lives that will have been lost."
Learn more about what the U.S. is doing to help combat the Ebola outbreak: 


Questions and Answers on Ebola

A Major Increase in Our Response to the Ebola Outbreak

President Obama Delivers a Message to West Africans on Ebola

Related Topics: Global Development, Foreign Policy, Health Care, New York, New York


PREVIOUS POST
Looking Back on My White House Internship:


NEXT POST
You Told Us: Here's What Raising the Wage Means to You





 

Featured Content


We have a moral obligation to lead the fight against carbon pollution. 



Learn why we need to raise the minimum wage, in less than two minutes.



President Obama is taking action to help ensure opportunity for all Americans. Learn more.




 


 
Health Care


WHITEHOUSE.GOV IN YOUR INBOXSign up for health care updates





PHOTOS OF THE DAY

























VIEW PHOTO GALLERIES



 JUMP TO: 






Other White House Blogs
The White House Blog
Middle Class Task Force
Council of Economic Advisers
Council on Environmental Quality
Council on Women and Girls
Office of Management and Budget
Office of Public Engagement
Office of Science & Tech Policy
Office of Urban Affairs
 Open Government
Faith and Neighborhood Partnerships
US Trade Representative
Office National Drug Control Policy





 



 



Home
The White House Blog
Photos & Videos

Photo Galleries
Video
Performances
Live Streams
Podcasts
Shareables



Briefing Room

Your Weekly Address
Speeches & Remarks
Press Briefings
Statements & Releases
White House Schedule
Presidential Actions
Legislation
Nominations & Appointments
Disclosures



Issues

Civil Rights
Defense
Disabilities
Economy
Education
Energy & Environment
Ethics
Equal Pay
Foreign Policy
Health Care
Homeland Security
Immigration
Refinancing
Rural
Service
Seniors & Social Security
Snapshots
Taxes
Technology
Urban and Economic Mobility
Veterans and Military Families
Violence Prevention
Women
Joining Forces



The Administration

President Barack Obama
Vice President Joe Biden
First Lady Michelle Obama
Dr. Jill Biden
The Cabinet
White House Staff
Executive Office of the President
Other Advisory Boards



About the White House

Inside the White House
Presidents
First Ladies
The Oval Office
The Vice President's Residence & Office
Eisenhower Executive Office Building
Camp David
Air Force One
White House Fellows
White House Internships
Tours & Events
Mobile Apps
Tools You'll Use



Our Government

The Executive Branch
The Legislative Branch
The Judicial Branch
The Constitution
Federal Agencies & Commissions
Elections & Voting
State & Local Government
Resources






En español
Accessibility
Copyright Information
Privacy Policy
Contact


USA.gov
Developers
Apply for a Job









