
      Exclusive: Liberia health system collapsing as Ebola spreads
| Reuters


      Exclusive: Liberia health system collapsing as Ebola spreads
| Reuters






 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
World Cup
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video










































Article
Comments (1)
























Exclusive: Liberia health system collapsing as Ebola spreads

By Stella Dawson

Thu Aug 7, 2014 5:00pm EDT



1 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










                            A Samaritan's Purse medical personnel demonstrates personal protective equipment to educate volunteers on the Ebola virus in Liberia, in this undated handout photo courtesy of Samaritan's Purse.  
Credit: Reuters/Samaritan's Purse/Handout via Reuters












Windows on EbolaIsolated patients and staff seen through hospital windows in Spain.  Slideshow 


Related Topics


World »
Health »






WASHINGTON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - The health care system in Liberia is collapsing, hospitals closing down and medical workers fleeing from the Ebola epidemic, which is poised to worsen, Liberia’s foreign minister said on Thursday. 
“People are dying from common diseases because the health care system is collapsing,” Minister of Foreign Affairs Augustine Kpehe Ngafuan said in an interview with Thomson Reuters Foundation. “It is going to have a long-term impact, even after this crisis is behind us.” Treatable diseases such as malaria and diarrhea are left  untended because frightened Liberians are shunning medical centers, and these deaths could outstrip those from the Ebola virus by three or four fold, he said.But his biggest concern is the spreading epidemic.  “We are hearing it is going to get worse before it gets better. We do not know how much worse that will be. My main worry is the fear of how many people will die. Right now it is out of control and jumps from place to place,” Ngafuan said. The number of trained doctors and nurses, already in critical short supply after years of civil war, is shrinking as medical workers get infected, quarantined or are afraid to report to work. The country entered the epidemic with only about 50 doctors for 4 million people, he said. “What is happening is the entire health sector is being devastated by the crisis. It is not only a killer, but it kills those who care for them, and a good number of them are dying,” Ngafuan said.  Overwhelmed, the three West African countries most affected by the Ebola virus -  Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone - stressed at a meeting on Monday with top-level U.S. government officials, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Bank that a global response is critical, Ngafuan said. Sierra Leone’s Foreign Minister Samura Kamara in a separate interview in Washington after the three-day U.S.-Africa Summit delivered a similar message. "This is a disease that is beyond the capacity of the three national governments. We need greater international awareness and support and it should be considered a global health crisis that needs a global response," he said.  Both ministers said they were satisfied with the U.S. response. They have requested emergency assistance to contain the disease, logistical help, laboratories, additional health workers, and help with prevention and education programs. USAID, the international aid agency, pledged an additional $5 million and sent in an emergency team and the World Bank $200 million in emergency funding to fight the disease, which has claimed 932 lives and spread to Nigeria. The focus in West Africa is on containment, the ministers said. They were told experimental drugs and vaccines now under development at best would not be available until next year. “It is too early for that,” said Kamara. But they need more financial help. Sierra Leone estimates the cost of its emergency measures from July through December at about $25 million but only has $7 million, Kamara said. Liberia's Minister of Health has put the cost at $21 million for the period and faces a $10 million to $15 million shortfall, Ngafuan said. They were tapping their diaspora communities for emergency relief while in Washington.  Rebuilding more resilient health care systems will cost many millions more, the ministers said. But the crisis has shown how disease can ravage their economies and morph into a national security threat. "It is like you are pressing the pause button on the general economic activity. Schools are not opening. People are in quarantine. They are not coming to work. It is going to have an impact," Ngafuan said.  (Reporting by Stella Dawson; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)
FILED UNDER: 
World
Health







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints























We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


GeoThermal wrote:
        
Bring them all here. We love it.

Aug 07, 2014 6:49pm EDT  --  Report as abuse

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »














					Read



New Texas nurse with Ebola had fever on airliner
| 


3:34pm EDT 
Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project

1:09pm EDT 
U.S.-led air strikes intensify as Syria conflict destabilizes Turkey
| 


3:10pm EDT 
Hong Kong tycoon calls for protests to end after tension over police beating
| 


9:52am EDT 
Major indexes down more than one percent but off day's lows

3:20pm EDT 













PicturesEditor's choiceOur top photos from the last 24 hours.  Slideshow Windows on Ebola






 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  












































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.





























