Now even President Obama admits Ebola epidemic 'spiralling out of control' - SupanetNow even President Obama admits Ebola epidemic 'spiralling out of control' - Supanet
Supanet uses cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our site. If you continue without changing your browser settings, we'll assume that you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more by reading our cookies policy.x
 












  
Follow @Supanet


 



select colour
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Broadband Status
My Account 
Webmail 


























your daily news and entertainment portal










Home

News

Horoscopes

Crosswords

Galleries

Quizzes

Viral Videos

Weird News

Competitions

Shopping

Broadband






Entertainment
Business & Money
Lifestyle
Sport
Motoring
Home Insurance
Motorbike Insurance
Car Insurance
Status
About Us
Cool Websites
Terms & Conditions
Galleries





 Entertainment
Business & Money
Lifestyle
Sport
Motoring
Weird News
Supadates

 Entertainment
Business & Money
Lifestyle
Sport
Motoring
Weird News
 Home Insurance
Motorbike Insurance
Car Insurance
 Service Status
About Us
Contact Us
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
My Account
Webmail















Next: CSI style investigation reveals King Richard III was killed by 'two blows to the head'Previous: Salmond clarifies Scottish currency: 'No one can stop us from using the pound'





Now even President Obama admits Ebola epidemic 'spiralling out of control'







Obama said that the virus could threaten global security and has ordered 3,000 military personnel to the countries in crisis.
17:33 17 September 2014

Share this page


Tweet


1









Post


1





US President Barack Obama has admitted that the Ebola epidemic, which has so far killed 2,461 people in West Africa, is “spiraling out of control” and that it could threaten global security. America’s leader said: “Here's the hard truth. In West Africa, Ebola is now an epidemic, the likes that we have not seen before.” “It's spiralling out of control, it's getting worse. It's spreading faster and exponentially.”“If the outbreak is not stopped now, we could be looking at hundreds of thousands of people affected, with profound economic, political and security implications for all of us. It's a potential threat to global security if these countries break down.” Yesterday, it was also reported that the United States will offer Liberia aid to build 17 new Ebola treatment centres that will result in roughly 1,700 beds. It will also send officials to help train up to 500 health care workers a week. Dr Kent Brantly, who survived the disease, echoed the president’s sentiments. "We can't afford to wait months, or even weeks, to take action, to put people on the ground,” he said. 



Article Tags: ebolaus president barack obamavirus




    Search the web for more on this story:




 





 



Next »



« Prev





Disclaimer: Supanet is not responsible for, and disclaims any and all liability for the content of comments written by contributors to this website

 

Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a>
comments powered by Disqus


Browse through our galleries!




HOME







The best boybands ever




What makes Great Britain great?




When film stars sing




A bluffer's guide: The top 10 essential jazz albums




10 great images from Travel Photographer of the Year




Abbey Clancy models Ultimo lingerie




2014's Environmental Photographer of the Year




The rhymes and reasons behind weather folklore




Sam Faiers models Ann Summers lingerie




The top 10 best Harry Potter characters




The top 10 freakiest alternative festivals




The world's top 10 greatest chefs


Archive








Your free daily horoscope reading




Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Virgo
Libra
Scorpio
Sagittarius
Capricorn
Aquarius
Pisces





Try our quizzes!








SPELLING TEST: 10 of the most common words Brits struggle to write


How good of a friend are you?


Do you watch too much TV?


Bastille Day quiz: Test your French history!


4th of July: The Independence Day Quiz


Test your tennis trivia with our Wimbledon challenge quiz!


What sort of dad are you?


Environmental friend or foe? How green is your life?


Think you know your road signs?


The allergies quiz: Test your chances of beating an allergy


How English are you?


The snooker pot luck quiz


Archive








Have your say in our vote:




Do you think Ebola will strike the UK?


No
4%







Maybe
17%







Yes
79%







Previous vote
  | Discuss this article 
Poll Details
























Suggested searches:

Ebola in the UK
National Curry Week 
The Apprentice
Ebola symptoms
Halloween recipes
Kelly Brook
UK soap spoilers
Celeb photos leak
Local night classes
Snappening








 Tesco suspends 'number of people' after profits statement was £250m out 

 




 Severed leg found behind pub in small town of Whitworth, Manchester 

 




 World's 'sexiest criminal' charged with 114 counts including firearms possession and theft 

 




 Tony Blair weighs in: 'Ground troops essential to defeat IS' 

 




 NHS staff asked 'to volunteer' to treat Ebola victims in Africa 

 




 See full list: Apple still has bite in this year's rundown of the world's top 20 coolest brands 

 




 Why are roasted peanuts worse than raw for those with nut allergies? 

 




 VIRAL VIDEO OF THE WEEK: First person to buy new iPhone 6 in Perth drops it on live TV! 

 




 Stuck on holiday with Bieber... The top 10 nightmare celebrity travel partners 

 




 Why scientists still can't seem to agree if artificial sweeteners are better for you than sugar 

 




 Kevin Spacey cyberstalker sentenced to four years in prison 

 




 Midwife who left pregnant mother and baby to die when shift ended gets three month suspension 

 




 Referrals to breast cancer clinics more than doubled due to 'Angelina Jolie effect' 

 




 More than previously estimated: Earth may have 11 billion people by 2100 

 




 From Bond girls emerging in bikinis to charity swims, the top 10 greatest maritime moments 

 




 Scotland votes NO in historic independence referendum polls  

 




 Strictly curse returns: Rugby star splits from wife days after being seen with Kristina Rihanoff 

 




 Islamic State foiled as 'plan to behead person on Australian soil' exposed 

 




 Pointless host Alexander Armstrong to voice rodent superspy Danger Mouse 

 




 Major study reveals murder 'comes naturally' to both humans and chimpanzees 

 




 Disgraced Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has 'rare and difficult cancer' 

 
Tweets by @Supanet









Home
News
Horoscopes
Crosswords
Galleries
Quizzes
Viral Videos
Weird News
Competitions
Shopping
Broadband





 About us | Postboard | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | 
                Cookie Policy | General Condition 24 | Supanet Wikipedia | Supanet Sites | Contact us
      © Supatel Limited 2014










x Share us on Facebook









            
          





             
          




