Will Ebola become an epidemic? Is it the start of the end of the world? - QuoraWill Ebola become an epidemic? Is it the start of the end of the world? - QuoraThere are updates to this page that haven't been applied because you've entered text. Refresh this page to see updates.Hide this message.QuoraQuora is the best answer to any question.Sign up in secondsRemember MeForgot Password?Please confirm your email address. Resend Confirmation LinkNo account found for this email. Retry, or Sign up for Quora.Incorrect password.  Reset PasswordShare QuestionRelated TopicsHealth and MedicineHealthMedicine and HealthcareMedical ResearchEpidemiology★Will Ebola become an epidemic? Is it the start of the end of the world?Please don't edit these details or you get blocked and reported I am keeping a record of date and time and numbers.08/08/2014Ebola death toll = 961+14/08/2014Ebola death toll = 1000+16/09/2014Ebola death toll = 2460+Infected by Ebola = 4750+24/09/2014Ebola death toll = 2810+Infected by Ebola = 5100+02/10/2014Ebola Death Toll = 3338+Infected by Ebola = 7178+Although these are the official statistics, it is believed the true death toll is dramatically larger than this.Follow Question150Comments4+ Loading...  52 AnswersHideAsk to Answer  Ian York, Virologist, immunologist, biol... (more) Virologist, immunologist, biologist581 upvotes by  Anders Wallén, Quora User, Quora User, (more)Loading...Let's put this into perspective.Known Ebola deaths in the past 8 months: 1000Malaria deaths in the past 12 hours: 1000I'm not deprecating Ebola at all. It's a terrible disease.  But the very worst expectations for Ebola don't put it at even a tiny fraction of the risk of diseases that most people don't even think about.We know how to stop Ebola: It involves communication and normal sterility precautions.  This outbreak is continuing because the unique circumstances of the region have made those solutions difficult.We don't know how to stop malaria.  In the time it took you to read this short post, two people died of malaria, by the way.Written 14 Aug. Not for Reproduction.Upvote581DownvoteComments11+ Loading... Related QuestionsHow did pertussis become epidemic in California?What is the current state of the Ebola epidemic in Sierra Leone?What is the most realistic end game for the Ebola pandemic? Shelby Buttimer, Librarian, Film Critic, Web De... (more) Librarian, Film Critic, Web Designer...1.8k upvotes by  Serban Dragos,  Chris Everett,  Tina Wolfram, (more)Loading...This is NOT the end of the world.  As deadly as Ebola is, it's actually rather terrible at spreading itself.1.  It is only contagious via bodily fluid.  The best pandemic virus are spread through the air.  It's the most efficient way to get a whole plane full of people sick.  You have no more chance of catching Ebola from sitting next to someone on a plane or a train than you would of catching Herpes.  Not gonna happen.Edited again:  Some people are confused about "airborne".  Yes, if someone with active Ebola coughs in your face, you can get Ebola that way and I suppose that for the 2 seconds it's in the air, it's "airborne".   Ebola is not "airborne" in the sense that a cold or flu virus is airborne in that the virus can not hang around in the air waiting to infect people, it can't survive in air filters or on surfaces.   A truly airborne virus can infect a whole room full of people with one person's cough.  Ebola is not airborne. The other tremendous disadvantage Ebola has is that it doesn't typically cause coughing or sneezing like a cold virus.  It causes bleeding out of various unpleasant orifices.  That's certainly very unpleasant, but doesn't spread the virus like a good cough or sneeze. 2. It is only infectious once you are showing symptoms.  So even in the incubation period, the person carrying it can't spread it.  And when the carrier starts showing symptoms, they're incapacitated within hours.  This is a terrible way to spread disease.  A really efficient pandemic virus would give the person the sniffles and slight headache for a week or so before taking them out so that the person will ride the train, go out to dinner, go to work, etc.    Diseases don't spread well when the person is at home sick in bed while they're infectious.3. The only reason Ebola has spread as much as it has is because it started out in ideal disease-spreading conditions -  poor countries with poor medical care, among people who have little trust for their governing authorities, who generally aren't sufficiently educated to understand the importance of quarantine, and who have funeral rituals which involve touching the dead body.   Ebola would never survive in the United States or any other first world country with good medical care and with the ability to quarantine as needed.Edited to add:Can Ebola be transmitted by mosquitoes?   Nope.  Mosquitoes aren't a natural host.  Sure, mosquitoes can bite people who have Ebola, but the virus will die inside the  mosquito.     Same with ticks and other biting insects. Will Ebola become airborne? Almost certainly not.  The virus is incredibly delicate.  Even if you just dry out a bloody rag contaminated with Ebola, the virus will die.  And the virus hasn't mutated significantly since it was found in 1976, so the odds of it mutating to be able to survive in the air are pretty darn slim.  Not to mention that Ebola doesn't cause coughing and sneezing, two of the best ways for an airborne virus to spread, even if it does become airborne on some off chance. Ebola is not intelligent, folks.   Is it dangerous?  Sure.  Is it deadly?  Absolutely.  Is it intelligent?  NO.  Nor is it malicious.  Ebola is not plotting world domination any more than that cold that's going around your office.  It's just a virus.  And we know how to deal with it.    The only reason its survived this long is that it's popped up in the best possible place for it to survive - a place with terrible healthcare and with poor sanitation.   It will die out again and it won't take over the world.  Don't panic. :o)Embed QuoteUpdated 14 Aug.Upvote1.8kDownvoteComments43+ Loading...  Chris Everett255 upvotes by  Nimrod Grinvald,  Simon Härnqvist,  Stan Harris, (more)Loading...The current outbreak began in March, officially on the 25th, though it had been in progress for some time (Unofficially, I heard it started in February).  Going by the official date, that's 136 days that this outbreak has lasted, or over four months, as of this writing.The fatality rate has been ~60%It began and has largely remained in nations that could only be charitably referred to as third world nations.  Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia are some of the poorest nations of the planet, which lack any sort of medical infrastructure, have conditions that are ideal for the spread of the virus, have populations that are highly distrustful of authorities and/or medical personnel, and can't even provide safe supportive care, to say nothing about actual isolation procedures.  Even in 3rd world nations like Nigeria, the virus has so far found little hold.  As bad as Nigeria is, it's well more advanced than the above nations.  As the virus spreads (and spread it will) to other nations, it will encounter much more sophisticated medical infrastructure, and generally conditions that aren't conducive to it's survival.  Exposed westerners are those who are in the medical community, voluntarily working with infected patients in a near zero resource environment.  Frankly, if this virus can't manage to kill three people a day in its most promising territory, it's not a threat of significance to the rest of the world.  At all.It's certainly possible that this epidemic will travel throughout some area of west Africa, and could kill thousands or even tens of thousands of people.  This is of course sad and unfortunate, but by contrast the Spanish Flu epidemic of 1918 killed about 70 million people around the world.  And you probably haven't even heard of that.Or contrast it to the swine flu epidemic in 2009 that killed some 15,000 people.ETA: New information shows that this outbreak claimed its first victim way back in December of 2013.  248 days.ETA2:  Yesterday I read that an Ebola clinic in Liberia was looted.  People ran off with blood soaked bedding, and patients.  This is the sort of behavior that spreads this disease in these nations.  And the sort of behavior that's exceptionally unlikely in the vast majority of the world.ETA3:  The pace continues to increase with a couple thousand dead.  It's now likely that Ebola has killed more in this outbreak than Malaria will kill tomorrow.Embed QuoteUpdated 14 Sep.Upvote255DownvoteComments4+ Loading...  Jeff Feldman, Perpetual ApprenticePerpetual Apprentice28 upvotes by  Kirnesh Pandey,  Tyler Nestor,  Daniel Spector, (more)Loading...There's a relatively simple ratio that explains why viruses haven't killed us all off, which is virulence vs. contagiousness. With limited exception, the more deadly a virus, the faster it kills off its host, and thus the less it spreads (due to less chances to infect others). Something like HSV is so common because it doesn't cause sufficient harm to prevent transmission, whereas Ebola is far less so as it quickly incapacitates its host.Embed QuoteWritten 12 Aug.Upvote28DownvoteComments2 Loading...  Aaron Wright, Aaron Wright is the owner of L... (more) Aaron Wright is the owner of Lernabit.com17 upvotes by  Ian York,  Tom Wesley,  Anil Kacira, (more)Loading...First of all, a note on terminology. An epidemic is when there is an outbreak of a disease beyond normal levels, but the outbreak is concentrated in one region. When it spreads far and wide around an entire continent or the whole world, it becomes known as a pandemic. So technically, the Ebola outbreak is already an epidemic. I believe you are asking if it will become a pandemic.The answer to that: probably not. The spread of Ebola in West Africa is caused by a combination of problems.Part of the problem is, quite simply, the issue of poverty in West Africa. There is a startling lack of doctors, and the doctors they do have are severely underfunded and lack supplies. Most of the countries in Europe, the U.S, and some countries in Asia don't have to worry about that as much.Another reason the outbreak is so bad is because of cultural misunderstandings between the West and Africa. Even when healthcare workers go to Africa to help, many of the people in Africa do not trust doctors, and some of them don't even trust their own doctors. In addition, people in Africa who survive Ebola frequently face stigmatization from other members of their community. Even after they are past the stage of being contagious, many people will avoid them and their families for fear of catching the disease. As a result, many people with the disease hide from the doctors rather than seeking help, and they end up infecting other people.Ebola can be controlled, but it takes supplies and education. Also, the disease is not as contagious as most people think. It will not travel across the room; it requires fairly close contact (within a few feet) to transfer from one person to the other. That is why healthcare workers account for many of the infections.So no, it probably isn't the start of the end of the world.More info: http://www.lernabit.com/blog/pos...Embed QuoteWritten 19 Aug.Upvote17DownvoteComments2+ Loading...  Alex Rodriguez18 upvotes by  Chris Everett, Quora User,  William Mccleary, (more)Loading...Chris Everett's answer is right. The thing is, from an evolutionary perspective, Ebola is a relatively bad virus in terms of spreading to others- you need to come into contact with an infected person's bodily fluids in some way, since it's not airborne. This basically means that in a developed nation, there would be little to no opportunities for it to spread because of the effective containment measures. By contrast, in Western African countries, a lot of people prefer to keep their infected family members home with them due to a myriad of reasons, resulting in the current pandemic. Also, the burial rituals for the dead that are widely practiced involve close contact with the body, again contributing to the spread of the virus.So no, it's not likely to be the start of the end of the world. Unfortunately, if it spreads further (which it looks like it's going to) to other African countries, unless world health officials act quickly and efficiently, if the nation has poor medical infrastructure, a distrust of foreign doctors and a widespread lack of education about Ebola, it will continue to kill at a fast rate. However, like I said before, because of the nature of the virus, it will be limited to less developed nations.Embed QuoteWritten 8 Aug.Upvote18DownvoteComment Loading... MoreNext >>Write an answerRelated QuestionsWhy are so many people disappointed that the world did not end?If Ebola does become a worldwide threat, as some fear it will, what are some good ways to try to protect yourself?Is there an Ebola season?Thought Experiments: If everyone in the world knew 100 years ago that the world was going to end on Dec. 21, 2012, how would the world be different?Is Ebola becoming a killing threat to the entire world?What will happen to the rest of the world if Ebola becomes endemic in Liberia?General Knowledge: Why did people think the year 2000 was going to be the end of the world?Sign in to read all of Quora.Continue with GoogleConnected to GoogleContinue with FacebookConnected to FacebookBy continuing you indicate that you have read and agree to the Terms of Service.Sign Up with Email Loading account...Complete Your ProfileFull NameChecking...EmailChecking...PasswordChecking...By creating an account you indicate that you have read and agree to the Terms of Service.CancelBest Questions in Epidemiology★Ebola: Can you catch Ebola from an iPhone?★What are the most alarming upcoming infectious/lifestyle diseases?★Both the both the pandemic of 1918 (Spanish flu) and 2009 influenza viruses have been identified as H1N1, what changed the equation of virulence?★Contagion (2011 
Movie): Is it true that the average person touches their face between 2,000 and 3,000 times per day?                Top StoriesSitemap#ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZAbout - Careers - Privacy - Terms