
      Ebola health workers should get danger money, expert says
| Reuters


      Ebola health workers should get danger money, expert says
| Reuters






 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
World Cup
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video











































Article

























Ebola health workers should get danger money, expert says

By Misha Hussain

Mon Sep 1, 2014 11:08am EDT



0 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










                            Health workers wearing protective clothing prepare themselves before to carrying an abandoned dead body presenting with Ebola symptoms at Duwala market in Monrovia August 17, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/2Tango












Windows on EbolaIsolated patients and staff seen through hospital windows in Spain.  Slideshow 


Related Topics


Health »






DAKAR (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Doctors and nurses fighting the world's biggest outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa should get incentives including better pay, insurance and access to the new Ebola drug ZMapp, an international health expert said.
The hemorrhagic fever, spread through the blood, sweat and vomit of the sick, has killed more than 1,550 people since March, including more than 120 health workers. Many work long hours with no access to proper protective equipment.Johan von Schreeb, who has traveled to the region to advise officials on how to manage the deadly epidemic, said if health workers were not protected and remunerated for their dangerous work, they could not be expected to report for duty."There has to be reciprocity for those that are taking a risk in getting involved in this epidemic and are working to control it. If you take risks, you should be paid," said von Schreeb, head of research on healthcare in disasters at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm."Modern mobile phone technology can be used to track who is coming to work as well as transferring money directly so they can be paid on a performance-based system on top of their normal salaries," he told Thomson Reuters Foundation from Sierra Leone, where he is providing technical support for the outbreak.The government of Sierra Leone has come under fire for its handling of the Ebola outbreak. On Saturday, health workers went on strike over pay and poor working conditions at a major state-run Ebola treatment center in Kenema in the country's east.As well as holding formal walkouts, some health workers elsewhere in Sierra Leone, as well as others in Ebola-hit Liberia and Guinea, have simply not reported for work.In Liberia, where infection rates are highest, President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf has issued orders threatening state officials with dismissal for failing to report for work or for fleeing the country.SCARCE RESOURCESIshmael Mehemoh, chief supervisor at Sierra Leone's Kenema clinic in Sierra Leone, said that "gloves, aprons and boots are either not available at some times or are insufficient". He said the clinic's burial team had only "one broken stretcher" to transport corpses which posed a health hazard.In a further sign of strained resources, nurses and members of the burial team at Kenema told Reuters the government had stopped paying their wages of $50 a week.Von Schreeb said advanced treatment centers specifically for infected caregivers as well as insurance packages could help to encourage health care workers to continue their essential work.    "There are negotiations with the UK government to set up an advanced 12-bed facility in Freetown specifically for health care workers. I sincerely hope the new drug ZMapp will be made available for these courageous people," said von Schreeb, noting there had not yet been a response from donors on the proposal.    "There needs to be some sort of insurance scheme too, so if you die, your family are supported so that they can survive despite the loss of income," he added.    Jorge Castilla-Echenique from the European Commission's humanitarian arm (ECHO), said pay incentives and insurance were good ideas and that ECHO would be willing to fund them.But he had reservations about the concept of favorable treatment for health workers."You'd have to be very cold blooded given the lack of drugs. Lab technicians would get priority, followed by international health workers, followed by locals health workers and so on," said Castilla-Echenique, who has just visited Sierra Leone and Liberia.     Sheik Umar Khan, a leading doctor in Sierra Leone, was infected with Ebola but did not receive the scarce ZMapp drug, nor was he flown abroad for advanced care. He died on July 29.    Early on in the outbreak, two American health workers who contracted the virus at a clinic in Liberia were flown back to the United States, treated with ZMapp and both recovered.      A week ago, British nurse William Pooley was flown to England after contracting Ebola in Kenema, where some 25 health workers have died. He is being treated in London. (Editing by Ros Russell; Thomson Reuters Foundation, the charitable arm of Thomson Reuters, covers underreported humanitarian news, human rights, corruption and climate change. Visit www.trust.org)
FILED UNDER: 
Health







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints
























Comments (0)
This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.













					Read



New Texas nurse with Ebola had fever on airliner
| 


3:34pm EDT 
Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project

1:09pm EDT 
U.S.-led air strikes intensify as Syria conflict destabilizes Turkey
| 


3:47pm EDT 
Hong Kong tycoon calls for protests to end after tension over police beating
| 


9:52am EDT 
Major indexes down more than one percent but off day's lows

3:20pm EDT 



















 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  













































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.





























