What’s the risk of Ebola in the U.S.? | health enewsWhat’s the risk of Ebola in the U.S.? | health enews





19:56 PM on Wednesday, 15th October 2014

















					Connect with us:  
					










Home
Health Topics

Behavioral Health
Bone & Joint
Brain & Neuro
Cancer Care
Dental Health
Diet & Nutrition
Digestive & Gastrointestinal
Fitness & Wellness
Health Technology
Heart Care
Holiday Recipes
Infographics
Kidney & Urinary
Men’s Health
Parenting
Pediatric Care
Pregnancy
Primary Care
Senior Care
Skin Care
Trauma Care
Vision Care
Women’s Health


Videos
Blog
 







You are here: Home / Health eNews Daily / What’s the risk of Ebola in the U.S.?






Posted on:August 8, 2014
With:
4 Comments

Health Topics:Health Technology  Men's Health  Women's Health




What’s the risk of Ebola in the U.S.?

By: Tim Nelson










  Email








With the death toll standing at more than 900 and an estimated number of infections of more than 1,700 in the countries of Western Africa, many Americans are understandably concerned with the growing Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreak occurring halfway around the world.
Movies like Outbreak have sold the premise that Ebola is a wild tornado of a virus, running rampant from one initial infection to threaten most of the nation. However, according to medical professionals, the reality of the potential threat, specifically here in the U.S. is much, much different.
First, Ebola is not a common disease, says Dr. James Malow, infection control specialist at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center in Chicago. Diseases that are much more prevalent in developing nations, including malaria and typhoid, pose a much greater threat. And in the U.S., such viruses are nearly extinct due to modern advances in containment and treatment.
“When someone is suspected of having the Ebola virus, they need to be isolated to contain the possibility of spreading the infection,” Dr. Malow says. “Here in the U.S., we’ve done this for years—we know how to contain it. We’re fortunate enough to have the technology and the knowledge to contain the virus and eliminate the risk of spread.”
However, the developing countries of western Africa that are at the heart of the outbreak—Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria—don’t have the same access to high-tech isolation procedures, like negative pressure hospital rooms. Compounding the problem, he says, is the lack of education regarding the spread of the virus and the fear of reporting the condition or seeking medical assistance.
“There is fear in these countries—fear of the government, fear of punishment for contracting the illness,” Dr. Malow says. “So family members try to care for the infected and contract the disease themselves. Additionally, local customs may involve hiding dead bodies in their homes, they’re not reporting getting sick or being with someone who is infected.”
In addition, the nature of the virus makes the risk of spread of Ebola in the U.S. exceedingly small, he says. The disease causes symptoms upon infection, making it much easier to catch and contain early on. Most viruses, from the common cold to HIV, can be spread days—even months, in the case of HIV—before the carrier shows any actual symptoms of illness, Dr. Malow says.
In fact, with many viruses, a person often is most infectious before they exhibit actual symptoms, causing them to spread the illness without knowing it. Therefore, most viruses are typically spread before illness sets in and the need for isolation and containment is obvious, he says.
“If someone comes into an American emergency room showing symptoms of the illness and stating that they’ve recently visited an affected region in Africa, there will be an immediate reaction to isolate, test and treat the individual,” Dr. Malow says. “That person will stay in isolation until the cause of the illness is determined.”
Dr. Malow says the Ebola virus is not easily transmitted. Unlike cold or flu viruses, which are spread through the air by a cough or a sneeze, the Ebola virus can only contaminate through contact with bodily fluids—blood, vomit, sweat, semen and breast milk. Close contact is required for the spread of the illness, so most often infected in western Africa are family members, health care providers and aid workers. This makes the need for isolation precautions even greater to avoid cross contamination, he says.
And, though no cure is commercially available for Ebola, the supportive care in the U.S. is much better than what is available in Africa, Dr. Malow says.
“We shouldn’t be panicking about Ebola,” he says. “This is not a threat to Americans. We should, instead, be worried about the devastating effect of the virus on western Africa and be doing all we can to assist them and help them contain this threat.”





Like it, share it or leave a comment!Cancel Reply































			4 Comments		











Erin Abbey
August 8, 2014 at 8:28 am
                
                                 · Reply

Great story Tim.  Nicely written to hopefully calm some of the fears out there.














Sarah
August 8, 2014 at 1:54 pm
                
                                 · Reply

this is great info for all to know!














TOM NELSON
August 8, 2014 at 7:29 pm
                
                                 · Reply

Very informational — it should relieve the fear many of us have when the mere mention of the
disease causes hearts to pound.














Joseph Stacko
August 11, 2014 at 5:39 pm
                
                                 · Reply

Thanks Tim for helping get the truth out there about the actual risk of the virus. So many major media outlets have been sensationalizing the current African outbreak. While it is an extremely dangerous situation in Africa, the difference in the education and medical technology between there and industrialized nations couldn’t be more different.
Heck, there are people out in Africa that do not believe “Ebola” exists – that instead it is caused by ‘evil spirits’, and that the medical workers are ‘monsters trying to harvest their body parts’. It is sad that the education is so poor out there, that it helps stimulate the spread of the disease.
Anyway, here is to hoping that the Reston strain of Ebola virus never mutates to be able to infect humans (that WOULD be a risk to the US).









Name *

Email * (will not be published)

Website


For security purposes, please solve the equation below, before you submit your comment.
 


		eight −  = 3	 Submit Comment







Tags
Advocate Health CareAdvocate Illinois Masonic Medical CentercontaminationdiseaseDr. James MalowEbolahealth enewsisolationpandemicvirus


← College students like ‘healthy’ vending machines
Does chemo define a cancer patient? →


About the Author



Tim Nelson

Tim Nelson, health enews contributing editor, is public affairs manager at Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center in Chicago. He has more than 20 years of communications and journalism experience, creating health care publications, initiating communications strategies and engaging in all areas of social media.
 
Tim earned his degree in journalism from Marquette University. In his free time, he is a certified Laughter Yoga leader, a movie fanatic, an avid reader and spoiler of his dog, Indigo.



View All Articles (144)


   



Related Posts





Parents: Know the signs of teen dating violence





6 tips to choosing your next primary care doc





Clip of the Day: Breast reconstruction surgery benefits





How much you eat may depend on who you’re with






 




 

 
















Today's News Feed ‌ |‌ Terms‌ of‌ Use


  Recent Posts 





A link between sleep deprivation and Alzheimer’s?


October 15, 2014









Sofas unsafe for sleeping infants


October 15, 2014









Parents: Know the signs of teen dating violence


October 15, 2014









6 tips to choosing your next primary care doc


October 15, 2014









Infographic: Healthy numbers for a healthy heart


October 15, 2014





Archives 
Select Month
 October 2014  (74)
 September 2014  (135)
 August 2014  (130)
 July 2014  (137)
 June 2014  (129)
 May 2014  (133)
 April 2014  (135)
 March 2014  (135)
 February 2014  (121)
 January 2014  (130)
 December 2013  (124)
 November 2013  (124)
 October 2013  (132)
 September 2013  (116)
 August 2013  (121)
 July 2013  (117)
 June 2013  (113)
 May 2013  (109)
 April 2013  (111)
 March 2013  (75)
 February 2013  (45)
 January 2013  (28)
 December 2012  (5)
 November 2012  (1)
 May 2012  (1)
 March 2012  (2)

 




 



 





 






Featured Video
Mammograms aren’t very fun We asked doctors, nurses and staff what they think about mammograms. Here's what they told us.
 


Featured Blog





Helping other breast cancer survivors
By: Malgorzata Cieslak


October 13, 2014
//
3 Comments



Read how I share my experiences to support other women in my community.













      







About Us
Contact Us
health enews staff
Privacy Policy





 








                    Copyrights © 2014 & All Rights Reserved.                










