Natural Health News and Scientific Discoveries - NaturalNews.comNatural Health News and Scientific Discoveries - NaturalNews.com






Español      Mobile Site

Home      Subscribe
(free)      About
NaturalNews      Contact
Us      Write
for NaturalNews      Media
Info      Advertising
Info











































CDC endangering America
Five Ebola lies
Top 10 Ebola preps to do NOW
Nature's antivirals revealed
CDC scientist confesses to vaccine fraud





























Ebola outbreak spreading in Dallas




Today's Most Viewed Articles

The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media

Latest News

October 15 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
America's expanding vulnerability to Ebola outbreak depicted in Natural News infographic


Despite all the false assurances of government and health officials, an Ebola outbreak is now under way in the United States. The outbreak is actively spreading in Dallas, Texas, where disastrous failures in containment protocols allowed "patient zero" Thomas Duncan...





October 15 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
Ebola outbreak spreads in Dallas hospital as second nurse confirmed infected


An Ebola virus which government authorities have repeatedly assured us all would never come to America in the first place is now spreading uncontrolled through medical staff members of the Dallas hospital where "patient zero" Thomas Duncan was being treated.

"A second...





October 15 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!


A jaw-dropping report released by the World Health Organization on October 14, 2014 reveals that 1 in 20 Ebola infections has an incubation period longer than the 21 days which has been repeatedly claimed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control.

This may be the single...





October 15 - Jonathan Benson, staff writer
70 medical staff treated Thomas Duncan in Dallas; 21-day countdown now underway


Dozens of staff members from Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas came into direct contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian national who became the first Ebola victim to die in the U.S. The Associated Press (AP) says roughly 70 healthcare workers from the...





October 15 - Ethan A. Huff, staff writer
5,700 hospitals in the United States; only four have biohazard isolation units suitable for Ebola patients


The mouthpiece of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Thomas Frieden, thinks Americans should calm down about the whole Ebola outbreak and just trust the government. In the event of more Ebola cases, he recently stated, the CDC is now considering...





October 15 - J. D. Heyes
CDC director now 'rethinking' Ebola strategy that he previously claimed was bulletproof


Once upon a time in the not too distant past, top U.S. health officials and politicians were telling Americans that they had nothing to worry about regarding the spread of Ebola to the United States.

Now, after two people in the U.S. have contracted the virus and...





October 15 - Michael Ravensthorpe
Three medicinal mushrooms that are proven to fight disease


The world's greatest healing systems have long revered the medicinal power of edible mushrooms. In ancient Chinese and Indian medicine, for instance, mushrooms were often prescribed to individuals suffering from a wide range of conditions ranging from fatigue to serious...





October 15 - Jonathan Benson, staff writer
Ebola primed to go airborne, warns virologist


The first case of Ebola transferring from person-to-person within the U.S. has been confirmed, and one university professor argues that the deadly hemorrhagic virus is now ready to go airborne.

Dr. David Sanders from Purdue University in Indiana says that, because...





October 15 - Jonathan Benson, staff writer
4,500 people per month enter the US from Ebola-stricken nations


It has now been confirmed that tens of thousands of people from West Africa come to the U.S. every month, and many of them are still not being properly screened for Ebola prior to entry. As many as 150 people per day, or 4,500 per month, continue to make their way into...





October 15 - Carolanne Wright
Dry skin brushing can strengthen immunity, spark detoxification and reverse the hands of time


Long used in Ayurveda, dry skin brushing is a powerful -- yet exceptionally economical -- healing therapy. Upon first glance, the practice may not seem like much. We may question how a quick session of brushing the skin can provide such impressive results as heightened...





October 15 - Julie Wilson staff writer
Corn can be bred to be rich in vitamin A naturally, without the use of questionable GMO technology


Amazing news came from Purdue University this week regarding the discovery of a certain set of genes that can help makes us all healthier, while still enjoying one of the world's most favored foods: corn.

The individuals who volunteered to be the first test subjects...





October 15 - J. D. Heyes
Ebola will be in Britain by Christmas, warns Health Secretary


Britain's health secretary is warning that the Ebola virus will arrive in his country by Christmas, as he announced a new initiative to begin screening passengers for the deadly virus at London's Heathrow Airport.

Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said that passengers...





October 15 - Lance Johnson
48-year-old cures high blood pressure, heart palpitations by maintaining this food protocol


I recently got to sit down with a 48-year-old man from Illinois who used to struggle with high blood pressure and overall hypertension. He remembers experiencing intermittent heart palpitations and episodes of intense heart racing when bending over and standing up quickly...





October 15 - L.J. Devon, Staff Writer
Ebola waste disposal contract given to company that was fined for illegally dumping aborted babies in landfill


There are so many unborn babies being discarded in the world today that some are now being illegally shoveled into landfills right along with household waste. One waste disposal company was caught doing this in 2011, trying to cut corners and save money. How is their...





October 15 - Carolanne Wright
5 DIY therapeutic baths that can change your life for the better


If you feel that your health could use a boost, or you need a little extra care, a healing soak is one of the best ways to regain equilibrium, shed toxins and calm the mind. A perfect medium for children and adults alike, therapeutic baths not only help you relax but...





October 14 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
How to construct an emergency Ebola isolation room in your own home after the hospitals are overrun


There are 5,723 hospitals in the United States, and only four of them have level-4 biohazard isolation facilities. The other 5,719 are just "regular" hospitals with rooms that are no more secure against Ebola than your own bedroom, most likely.

Because the Ebola outbreak...





October 14 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
Huh? Ebola vaccine not being tested against Ebola


Before long, we are all going to be inundated with a mainstream media propaganda campaign that demands we all accept an Ebola vaccine. Right now, a vaccine has already entered human trials in Africa, reports NBC News. [1] The vaccine was developed by the NIH, and the...





October 14 - Mike Adams, NaturalNews Editor
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine


In the first quarter of 2015, I'll be launching a new "low-tech technology" solution that will become an instant must-have among people who want to be more self-reliant. The timing of the Ebola outbreak makes this solution even more urgent, so I'm shifting my present...






More News and Articles »




From the Health Ranger

America's expanding vulnerability to Ebola outbreak depicted in Natural News infographic


 


Ebola outbreak spreads in Dallas hospital as second nurse confirmed infected


 


Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!


 


How to construct an emergency Ebola isolation room in your own home after the hospitals are overrun


 


Huh? Ebola vaccine not being tested against Ebola


 


From Blogs.NaturalNews.com


More Blog Posts »
Health Talk Radio

Reference Information






Science.NaturalNews.com
Conduct powerful scientific research in mere seconds for your book, blog, website article or news report.







NaturalPedia.com
A free online encyclopedia of natural health knowledge from the industry's top
authors and writers.







HealingFoodReference.com
A free public service to promote health freedom and empower consumers with information about the healing power of foods.







HerbReference.com
A free public service to promote health freedom and empower consumers with information about the healing power of herbs.







SupplementReference.com
A free public service to promote health freedom and empower consumers with information about the healing power of supplements.







NutrientReference.com
A free public service to promote health freedom and empower consumers with information about the healing power of nutrients.







HonestFoodGuide.org
This free to download food guide offers genuine nutritional information, not watered-down information designed to boost the sale of milk, beef and grains.








America's Ebola Vulnerabilities 
See the full infographic »


11 horrifying truths about Ebola the government doesn't want you to know Learn more »


What are the Top 7 Natural Cures for Cancer and why does Western Medicine lie, cheat and steal to keep you from knowing them? Learn more »


Five mind-blowing facts about smoking that will "cut your habit" and transform YOU into a non-smoker for LIFE Learn more »


The top 4 reasons to avoid processed, conventional meat Learn more »


Top 9 Cures for Cancer that MDs and Oncologists in the USA are Afraid to Talk About Learn more »


How to augment and enhance your cognitive function Learn more »


Pandemic Preparedness FREE Online How-To Course Learn more »


7 most popular countertop water filters tested for removal of heavy metals and radioactive elements Learn more »


Meet the Health Ranger





• Video Summary
• Awards
• History
• Accomplishments
• Philosophy
• Latest Song
• Brush with Poverty


Learn more at HealthRanger.com »


Health Ranger Videos



BREAKING: 12 New Possible US Ebola Infections



Medical martial law declared in Sierra Leone



A blueprint for safer vaccines



Interview with Jon Rapport



Secret video from CDC bunker



Want You to Know My Name song + music video from Mike Adams the Health Ranger



B-17 Flying Fortress bomber flight over Austin Texas with the Health Ranger


More Health Ranger Videos »

New from Labs.NaturalNews.com


Heavy Metals Removal - Water Filters



Superfoods-Cacao Heavy Metals Ratings



Herbs-Ginkgo Heavy Metals Ratings



Foods-Pet Foods Heavy Metals Ratings



Tinctures-Iodine Heavy Metals Ratings



Foods-Cereals Heavy Metals Ratings



Beverages-Fruit Drinks Heavy Metals Ratings



Proteins-Vegan Heavy Metals Ratings


More Lab Results »












NaturalNews.com

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Us
Contact Us/Feedback
Write for Natural News
Media Information
Advertise Information


Follow Us

Email Newsletter
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
YouTube
Diaspora
Seen
RSS


















This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners. 





















