Ebola fear continues - BizBilla.comEbola fear continues - BizBilla.com






Oh, no! You don't have Java Script enabled! If you don't enable JS, You can't utilize full functionalities of this website .






 Welcome to BizBilla.com 

Join Free  
|
 Sign in  







 



 Back to Home








 










Ebola fear continues




21-Aug-2014,12-15-19 pm


























The International Netball Federation (INF) cancelled an international meeting in Nairobi, owing to deadly Ebola virus attack that has visited parts of Africa, Xinhua reported on Wednesday. Kenya Netball Federation Secretary Lilian Anupi said on Wednesday the INF has revoked sending its instructors to Africa with the main reason being the scare that the deadly virus has elicited around the world. The meeting was scheduled to take place between Aug 25 and Sept 1. The course would have drawn over 100 participants from the east African countries of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Even though the disease has been mainly confined in the three West African countries of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, the World Health Organisation has described Kenya as a high risk area owing to its capital city of Nairobi being a major air transit hub. So far, Kenya has shut its borders to citizens from the epicentre of the disease that has so far claimed over 1,000 lives.




Source From : http://news.oneindia.in/sports/sports-meet-in-kenya-cancelled-over-ebola-fears-1506389.html












   Post Your Comments






   Name *



   Email Address *



   Comments *







Slide to Unlock*
 











Comments






Related News


Twitter account has been .....














Go to the next news







Go to the next news





















Country Wise News

India News
China News
Gulf News
USA News
UK News




Industry Wise News

Agriculture
Automobiles
Construction & Infra
Textiles and Fabrics
Scientific Instrument & Supplies
Electrical Components & Supplies
Industrial Supplies



Import & Export

Worldwide Export News
Worldwide Import News
Global Banned Products List
International Impex Laws



Video News

News Videos
Event Videos
Interview Videos
Promotional Videos
Product Videos



Bizbilla.com

About Us
Words and Views
Success Stories
Careers
Press Section
All Embassies
Trade Associations
Trade Organization
BizBilla Awards
Business Certificates




Copyright &COPY 2014 www.bizbilla.com. All rights reserved. 2.42                










