
      New Ebola clinics useless without more trained staff
| Reuters


      New Ebola clinics useless without more trained staff
| Reuters






 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
World Cup
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video











































Article
Comments (1)

























New Ebola clinics useless without more trained staff

By Stella Dawson

Sat Sep 20, 2014 5:11am EDT



1 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print










                            Health workers bring a woman suspected of having contracted Ebola virus to an ambulance in front of a crowd in Monrovia, Liberia, September 15, 2014. 
Credit: Reuters/James Giahyue












Windows on EbolaIsolated patients and staff seen through hospital windows in Spain.  Slideshow 


Related News


Ebola lockdown brings Sierra Leone capital to a haltFri, Sep 19 2014Killings in Guinea show mistrust in Africa Ebola fight: WHOFri, Sep 19 2014African Minerals sees no material impact from Ebola lockdownFri, Sep 19 2014WRAPUP 2-U.N. to deploy Ebola mission as death toll reaches 2,630Thu, Sep 18 2014United Nations to deploy Ebola mission in worst-affected statesThu, Sep 18 2014



Related Topics


Health »






WASHINGTON (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - A shortage of volunteers to staff the new Ebola clinics and hospitals the international community is building in West Africa threatens efforts to bring the deadly virus rapidly under control, aid agencies have warned.
“The missing link is staff,” Athalia Christie, deputy for global health at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who has just returned from Liberia, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.The United States this week announced it will send in its military to build 17 Ebola treatment centers in Liberia. Army engineers from Britain are building a 200-bed hospital in Sierra Leone, while the United Nations has formed a special mission to lead efforts. This marks a dramatic scaling up of the global response to the Ebola crisis, which has claimed over 2,500 lives this year -  mostly in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea where infections are spiraling out of control as healthcare systems collapse.When world leaders meet for the United Nations General Assembly in New York next week, their sessions will include a two-day summit on the Ebola crisis. Many questions remain over how to handle the deadly virus.  Medical experts have yet to agree on a basic method of treatment, which shapes the types of aid that will be delivered. More money is needed, as well as more people to work in the region and more training. Experts at a poverty conference run by the U.S. development agency USAID in Washington on Friday said recruiting staff must be a top priority. Each 100-bed Ebola treatment center under construction needs 230 trained staff, including 12 medical experts, to operate, U.S. officials said. That would mean nearly 4,000 personnel for the Liberian facilities due to start opening in October, and it is unclear where they will come from.   “Building hospitals and equipping them is great. But unless you have trained personnel to work in them, that is not going to help,” said Rabih Torbay, senior vice president at the global healthcare nonprofit International Medical Corps (IMC). “Seventeen thousand beds, but who is going to staff them?" asked Torbay, who leads IMC’s Ebola response.'TERRIFIED' Usually humanitarian groups are inundated with volunteers ready to fly into disaster zones after earthquakes or floods. But Ebola has terrified people, he said. It spreads rapidly through contact with sweat, saliva, blood and other bodily fluids of an infected person, and the average death rate is over 50 percent. The epidemic has overwhelmed Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, which had a critical shortage of doctors and nurses even before the Ebola outbreak, which began earlier this year. Infections are estimated at 5,000, though the actual rate may be two or three times larger since many people are hiding in their homes. The World Health Organization says the infection rate is doubling every 10 to 21 days, which means hospitals and clinics may not be built and staffed fast enough to meet demand. U.S. officials are recruiting healthcare personnel from universities and hospitals, said Torbay. China has pledged doctors and nurses, and the African Union is sending a team of 30 health workers and specialists to the region. But the task of training them is huge, said Christie. They require seven to 10 days of classroom and practical work before they can enter hospitals and clinics. Relief staff must replace them every four to six weeks because workers get exhausted - emotionally from the high death toll and physically from wearing five layers of protective gear in extreme heat. Nancy Lindborg, USAID assistant administrator, said international agencies have drawn up a detailed matrix, specifying what each country and organization can contribute to addressing the Ebola crisis. “Health workers is the key gap,” she said.     (Reporting By Stella Dawson; Editing by Megan Rowling)
FILED UNDER: 
Health







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints























We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (1)


sandrala wrote:
        
We’ve got it backwards…more hospitals and nurses won’t stop epidemics spread by filthy living conditions.  
Take a good look at the photos and videos coming out of there.  You’ll soon see that their biggest issue is sanitation!  There is none. (Instead of toilets and trash cans, we send ‘em cell phones…)

Sep 20, 2014 6:42am EDT  --  Report as abuse

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »














					Read



New Texas nurse with Ebola had fever on airliner
| 


3:34pm EDT 
Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project

1:09pm EDT 
U.S.-led air strikes intensify as Syria conflict destabilizes Turkey
| 


3:47pm EDT 
Hong Kong tycoon calls for protests to end after tension over police beating
| 


9:52am EDT 
Major indexes down more than one percent but off day's lows

3:20pm EDT 



















 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  













































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.





























