Emergency lockdown in Sierra Leone: 6mn confined to homes in bid to contain Ebola — RT News - Linkis.comEmergency lockdown in Sierra Leone: 6mn confined to homes in bid to contain Ebola — RT News - Linkis.com











drag
drag




Minimize
http://rt.com/news/189296-ebola-shutdown-homes-sierra/#.VB3zFudVcJQ.twitter



                    0                
or











                        20 Sep                    








alamnyla
NylaTabassum



Emergency lockdown in Sierra Leone: 6mn confined to homes in bid to contain  #Ebola — RT News #Africa
 













Details
Reply
Retweet
Favorite

Page source
http://rt.com/news/189296-ebola-shutdown-homes-sierra/#.VB3zFudVcJQ.twitter



Share this page












                            3 visits                        





Log in





                    20 Sep                



                Like            









Open your Twitter potential and see the profit!
People are already having fun with Linkis.com, sharing links easily and customizing them in few simple
        clicks.
It's super cool automation feature does everything for you. Sit back and have fun while we make your tweets
        beneficial!
Connect and turn on Twitter automation




Experience instant customization!
Tired of manually customizing all the links in your Twitter feed? Meet our super-duper feature which makes it even easier to share!
Turn on Twitter automation


Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu




Well done! Now you can keep tweeting the way you usually do. All the boring job will be done for you by our service.
Note that you can switch Twitter automation OFF in your Settings menu


Reply to @alamnyla

@alamnyla

Tweet



25 days ago


NylaTabassum @alamnyla





Retweet this to your followers?

25 days ago


NylaTabassum @alamnyla





Retweet
Cancel




        Log in via social networks    







or






Comments are available for registered users only.Sign up and authorize our application.


Your account data is broken. You can fix it right now

We were unable to connect your Twitter account
Possible causes include:

Your Twitter password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Twitter account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Twitter… Log in via Twitter


We were unable to connect your Facebook account
Possible causes include:

Your Facebook password changed.
You have not granted Linkis.com approval to share to your Facebook account.
Some other complicated issue we can't quite explain.

To fix this, reconnect Linkis.com to Facebook… Log in via Facebook



Close

Create promo

Add URL and few words about it.Everyone who visits this page will see it.Hint: set default promo in your settings.






Fetch













0/120




Save



Delete promo block?
This promo is not the same as you indicated in your settings.  By deleting current promo you will leave the block blank. Are you sure?

Yes, delete
or
Use my default promo link




@alamnyla
            would highly appreciate your RT. You can retweet right here by simply clicking on the button below        

            Retweet        

            You can't retweet your own tweet        


                Maybe some other time            




            We had problem retweet on your behalf, but you can        

            Retweet manually        













Close

Close







 




