Importing of food and meat products from Ebola-hit countries bannedImporting of food and meat products from Ebola-hit countries banned







Wednesday, October 15th, 2014 10:56 PM

Jobs
Auto
Real Estate
Others





Classifieds










google
facebook
pintrest
rss
twitter














Qatar Chronicle | Qatar happenings | Qatar News | Qatar Classifieds | Qatar investments |  Qatar business
Qatar Chronicle brings you the latest on breaking news, Qatar happenings,Qatar News,Qatar Classifieds,Qatar charity, Qatar foundation, Qatar living, Qatar investments, Qatar business, Qatar events, World news and more with a focus on Qatar and the MENA region.




 

 


Latest Stories







Qataris ‘most stylish’ in region
Featured, General, Happenings, Middle East, World







Drip, drip: Water startups slowly tap a glacial industry
Featured, General, Happenings, Technolgy







Emir meet Saudi King
Featured, General, Happenings, Middle East, World







Debate rages on causes of divorce
Featured, General, Happenings







Qatar is Germany’s most important Arab investor
Business, Featured, Happenings







Preparations begin for National Day
Featured, General, Happenings, Middle East, World







Doha in final list of New 7 Wonders Cities
Featured, General, Happenings, Middle East, World







Sheikha Al Mayassa honoured by Women Together foundation
Featured, Happenings







Al Wakra to hold vegetable mart three times a week from December
Featured, General, Happenings







Malala Yousafzai and Kailash Satyarthi win Nobel peace prize 2014
Featured, Happenings, Science & Technology







Four new 911 Carrera models unveiled
Featured, Happenings







Cyber attacks: Qatar third most targeted
Featured, Happenings, Middle East, World







 






Home
Happenings
Politics
World

Americas
Asia
Europe
MENA
Africa


Business

Economy
Commerce
Investments

Corporate
Public Sector




Education
Sports
Science & Technology
Lifestyle

Culture
Health
Travel
Entertainment

Media
Music
Theatre Arts




Forum

Citizen Journalist
QC Announcements


Dangerous driving





 Importing of food and meat products from Ebola-hit countries banned


August 23, 2014 10:07 am



 By  Aani Fatimah 
 1305 Views

Posted In 

Featured Happenings In The News Middle East World

Tagged as 

Africaebolafoodimportmeatproduct










Related 



Qatar shocks Australia





Qataris ‘most stylish’ in region





BUZZEFF launches new innovative and proprietary video  advertising formats in MEA region





Focus Softnet Launches New Apps Store At GITEX Technology Week 2014





Thailand’S Phatlum Hopes To Cap Off 25TH Birthday Celebrations In Style At Omega Dubai Ladies Masters





Drip, drip: Water startups slowly tap a glacial industry







 
Supreme Council of Health – Qatar
The Supreme Council of Health, Qatar has banned importing of all sorts of food and meat products from Ebola-hit West African countries.
The decision, was taken after a high-level meeting of health officials. It is a part of precautionary measure to protect Qatar from any possible threat from the deadly virus. It is an addition to the ban on bringing in animals from Ebola-affected countries, including Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria.
Dr Sheikha Al Ziara, Head,  Environmental Health Section, Supreme Council of Health (SCH), said steps have been taken to ban all sorts of food products and meat items from Ebola-affected countries.
She was speaking at a meeting to discuss measures to prevent Ebola cases in the country.
The SCH meeting was attended by members of the international heath regulation committee and the committee working on a national plan to prepare for an early response to the Ebola threat.
Dr Mohamed bin Hamad Al Thani, Director of Public Health, Supreme Council of Health, reconfirmed that there was no Ebola case in Qatar. “We have taken all possible precautions to prevent the disease. If any suspected case is found, our healthcare professionals are prepared to handle the situation,” he said.
Symptoms for Ebola are sudden onset of fever, intense weakness, muscle pain, headache and sore throat. This is followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, impaired kidney and liver function, and in some cases, both internal and external bleeding. Laboratory findings include low white blood cell and platelet counts and elevated liver enzymes.
The virus is passed to humans through close contact with the blood or bodily fluids of infected animals.
Anyone found with suspected Ebola Virus infection should immediately call the hotline numbers 66740948 and 66740751, fax to 44070812 or send an email to [email protected]
 






< Previous ArticleIntake of vitamin D could help Asthma patients,reveals research
Next Article > IEP places Qatar in the Top-Tier of  Global Peace Index 2014





About the Author
Aani Fatimah




Aani Fatimah Khatoon is the Associate editor of Qatar Chronicle. She pens articles on issues of public interest and happenings across the world

 



Leave A Response

Click here to cancel reply.


Name (required)

Email  (required)

Website 



Comment 















  



  



 
Popular PostsSorry. No data so far.


  
Recent Posts


 Qataris ‘most stylish’ in regionOctober 15, 2014 



 Emir meet Saudi KingOctober 14, 2014 



 Preparations begin for National DayOctober 11, 2014 


 Recent CommentsFredrick on Traffic Department to take strict action against violatorszara on Video of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu admitting to killing innocents goes Viral onlineayub khan afridi on Vodafone names grand winners of World of PrizesA Khanwalkar on Qatar Airways launches free Doha City tour for transit passengersnitha Rose raju on PHCC To Get 1300 more Employees Tags2022 World Cup
Ashghal
Cairo
Carnegie Mellon University
Doha
doha bank
dubai
Egypt
Etihad Airways
FIFA
GCC
Hamad International Airport
Hamad Medical Corporation
HMC
Katara
Katara Cultural Village
MENA Golf Tour
Middle East
Ministry of Interior
Museum of Islamic Art
Muslim Brotherhood
Ooredoo
Palestine
Public Works Authority
Qatar
Qatar Airways
Qatar Foundation
Qatar Museums Authority
Qatar National Convention Centre
Qatar Petroleum
Qatar Tourism Authority
Qatar University
QMA
QNB
QNCC
QTA
Ramadan
Russia
Saudi Arabia
Supreme Council of Health
Supreme Education Council
Syria
UAE
UN
United Nations






 










 
Home
Happenings
Politics
Sports

 


 
Technology
Education
Forum
Gallery

 


Lifestyle 

Culture
Health
Travel & Tourism
Entertainment
Theatre & Arts
Media


 


Business 

Public sector
Economy
Construction
Investments
Corporate


 


World Middle East
Europe
America
Asia
Africa


 


 
About Us
Contact Us
Feedback
Contribute
Advertise

 








								&copy 2014. Qatar Chronicle. All Rights Reserved. | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy
 









