Fiance of Late Justina Ejelonu Tests Negative of Ebola And Discharged, Tells His Story
Fiance of Late Justina Ejelonu Tests Negative of Ebola And Discharged, Tells His Story

























































































Pages


Home
About
Dating
Career
Weddings
Marriage
Pregnancy
Infertility
Parenting
Recipes
Lifestyle
Celebrities
Fashion
Feminism
































































































Sunday, August 24, 2014





Fiance of Late Justina Ejelonu Tests Negative of Ebola And Discharged, Tells His Story






Tweet




















Sunday, August 24, 2014
ebola
,
Health
,
love
,
news






The fiancé of a nurse who died of Ebola has been discharged from the Ebola treatment center in Lagos this evening after his third test came out negative.

Dennis, who was late Justina Obi Ejelonu’s fiancé had been quarantined and later admitted into treatment after two tests confirmed that he was positive.

However, this evening Dennis was discharged from the treatment center with a certificate of clearance. He walked off the center in good health according top doctors who spoke anonymously with Saharareporters.

A second spouse of a deceased doctor who had primary contact with Liberian -American Thomas Sawyer who was admitted yesterday with Dennis remains hospitalized at the center, currently undergoing treatment.


Dennis story is a powerful one, he refused to  abandon his fiancé despite her being diagnosed with Ebola.

He told Saharareporters that Justina lost a two-month pregnancy, vomited severally on him while she collapsed and had to be carried to hospital by him. After, Justina was admitted he hung around the hospital , occasionally going into the Ebola ward cater for her as nurses and doctors abandoned the nurse to her fate at the treatment center.




Fourteen days after Justina died, Dennis had high temperature, instead of panicking he turned himself in to the treatment center for observation. An initial test led the center to quarantine him, and a second test came positive leading the center to admit him to treatment but this evening he was fully discharged after a third test carried out by international affiliates of the center came out negative.

Via SaharaReporters






















AROUND THE WEB



{if $ticker->lng_id==1}{else}{"Добавить свое объявление"|translate:10}{/if} Loading...





















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest








No comments:







Post a Comment
Click Post a Comment to share your thoughts, I'll love to hear from you. Thanks!*Comments on old posts are moderated and may take sometime to be shown. That's just because I want to see them and respond to you if necessary.























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)















































































The Best Idea For A First Date?













Total Pageviews















Search This Blog


Loading...













What You Should Read Next









Jennifer Lawrence, Katy Perry, Victoria Justice, More Alleged Nude Photos Leaked Again










Nude Photos of Jennifer Lawrence, Gabrielle Union, Scarlett Johansson, More Female Celebs Leaked 










#Fappening - Nicki Minaj's Leaked Nude Photos










#Fappening 5? Hackers Leak Pictures of Rita Ora, Kelly Brook, Doctor Who Star And More










How To Tighten the Vagina and Keep Away Any Bad Smells










Nigerian Lilian Gets Butt Massage In Big Brother Africa Hotshots [Video + Pictures]










Kim K Nudes Trending After Pics Leaked On Twitter 










EXCLUSIVE - Father of Girl Allegedly Kidnapped By Grandmother Says It's A Legal Matter










Rochas Okorocha's Second Daughter, Uju Holds Traditional And White Wedding 










Between Linda Ikeji and Mr Aye Dee - A Shocking Story of Love Gone Sour or Conspiracy?















Around The Web





























Connect With RML
























Get Updates in Your Inbox!

Enter your email address:Delivered by FeedBurner











Send an eMail

For advert enquiries or to submit a guest post, please email me - myne@mynewhitman.com - Thanks.

Bloggers.com, Sweepstakes, Log in











Like RML On Facebook













Follow on Google+


















Popular Posts This Month









Nude Photos of Jennifer Lawrence, Gabrielle Union, Scarlett Johansson, More Female Celebs Leaked 










Jennifer Lawrence, Katy Perry, Victoria Justice, More Alleged Nude Photos Leaked Again










How To Tighten the Vagina and Keep Away Any Bad Smells










#Fappening - Nicki Minaj's Leaked Nude Photos










#Fappening - Anna Kendrick In Leaked Photos










Kim K Nudes Trending After Pics Leaked On Twitter 










#Fappening - Hope Solo Responds To Leaked Naked Pictures










Kate Upton Confirms Nude Photo Leak As Lawyer Responds










Doctor Who Survived Ebola Infection From Patrick Sawyer Tells Her Story










Nigerian Lilian Gets Butt Massage In Big Brother Africa Hotshots [Video + Pictures]















Relationship Articles


Loading...












Reader's Q and A


Loading...












For Writers and Bloggers























Blogs I Read










Welcome to Linda Ikeji's Blog




1st set of winners win kitchen makeovers courtesy of Kate Henshaw












Romance Meets Life




Beyonce Debuts New Short Bangs Hairstyle - Do You Like It?












Bella Naija




New TV Series “Newman Street” featuring Bimbo Akintola, Fred Amata & More 
to Premiere Tomorrow!












Updating Naija




SEE The Top Ten Nigerian Actors With Extraordinary Wealth












It's Kemi Filani's blog...




How Yinka Ayefele's dad died during his 76th birthday celebration












Miss Petite Nigeria




There Is No Bitch in Life -Memo to the Guys from Female Blog Reader












Welcome To Ladun Liadi's Blog




Photos: Maheeda Reveals She Used To Be A Dark Skinned Lady












WELCOME TO NEPICITY




NIGERIA FOOTBALLER MIKEL OBI HITS FEMALE JOURNALIST IN ABUJA












Eights and Weights




Hip Hop Spin Class with KTX












Welcome to shallie's purple beehive




Photos;Queen of Swag Pokello has swag for days!












Thelma Thinks...




But You're Not a Virgin...












SISIYEMMIE: Livin' It, Bloggin' It!




BLOGBETTER: HOW MUCH SHOULD YOU CHARGE AS A BLOGGER?












This Is Laila's Blog




Adorable Photos of Blog Reader Onyi & her White Boo, Craig












DAYOR WRITES




I never really forget












wives connection




Who Knows Ezenwanyi And Co? Please Advise Them For Me












Berry Dakara




CHEATING












The Relentless Builder




Give a Child His Own Name, Not the Name of his Father or Grandfather












iNyamu's Eldorado




On Spring, Winter, Hope and Deceit...












Nigerian Tech - Tutorials Blog : OgbongeBlog




5 Ways to Earn Income From Blogging












1 + The One




Waiting and Loving It!!! Feat Tosin and Lanre Oladapo












LOVE AND RELATIONSHIP ISSUES




She Is My Source Of Admiration And Joy, Very Beautiful, Intelligent, Sweet And God-Fearing. I Don’t Want To Lose Her. Advice Me Please.












Atilola's World




Abdulsalam












Teshuva




Little Things That Matter In Marriage.












Nigerian Scorpio.Com




Privilege












Labyrinths of Lahrah: A Nigerian travel and photography enthusiast's blog




Wonders of Ilorin: Central Mosque of Ilorin












The Small Redemptions of Lagos




Style 2












Okeoghene's




....and summer ends.









Show 10




Show All















Advertisements










































































Copyrights and Disclosure

This Blog is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 United States License.You may re-use my content. However, ensure that it is linked back to this blog, and correctly attributed to Myne Whitman, or the author. Please do not edit, rewrite or commercialize my work without direct and written permission.This blog accepts forms of advertising and payments through various Networks. Also, if you shop on a retailer's website after clicking on the affiliate product or service links and banners on this site, I will receive a commission which costs you nothing. Finally, while advertising may influence content or links, I will always give my honest opinion, and will only review stuff I have personally used.












Powered by Blogger.


































