Ebola lockdown brings Sierra Leone capital to a haltEbola lockdown brings Sierra Leone capital to a halt
















We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy.


























Thomson Reuters Foundation








 LOGIN|SUBSCRIBE


						DONATE

					
















News
Trustlaw
Excellence in Journalism
Services
Jobs Market
About Us

View full desktop version
















Ebola patient at Emory University Hospital says he's recovering
Tropical Storm Ana close to hurricane status as it nears Hawaii
EPA approval of Dow herbicide violates law, critics charge
Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold
U.S. hits targets around Kobani for humanitarian purposes -Allen





FIND US ON




























								
									U.S. Supreme Court blocks Texas abortion restrictions

								
							









									
										Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold

									
								









									
										Ethiopia's fast-growing capital aims to become greener and cleaner

									
								









									
										Freak Nepal blizzards kill at least 20, including hikers, ...

									
								









									
										Syrian Kurds indicating targets as U.S. steps up Kobani strikes

									
								









									
										Economists urge Modi not to squeeze job scheme for rural poor

									
								









									
										Female students beaten, abused by Sudan security-rights group

									
								









									
										UN refugee chief says EU should let in more Syrian refugees

									
								









									
										Sri Lanka bans foreigners from old war zone amid UN probe

									
								









									
										Libyan army, residents battle Islamist militants in Benghazi

									
								









									
										Bomb training vital as Kurds retake Islamic State ground in Iraq

									
								









									
										Can the world produce enough food for 2 bln more people?

									
								









									
										Houthi rebels take over Yemen's Hodeidah port -residents

									
								









									
										Brazil election candidates spar over corruption, nepotism

									
								









									
										Global climate deal should be legally binding in parts: US

									
								









									
										Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding

									
								









									
										Nigerians demand release of 200 kidnapped schoolgirls

									
								









									
										WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa

									
								









									
										Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola

									
								









									
										Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response

									
								









									
										Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest 

									
								









									
										Away from Kobani, Syria's other civil war rages on

									
								









									
										I’ve rarely been so terrified 

									
								









									
										WHO may declare Nigeria and Senegal Ebola-free within days

									
								









									
										Investigative journalism's "golden age" faces surveillance threat

									
								









									
										UK firms must report efforts to end slavery in supply chains 

									
								










Ebola lockdown brings Sierra Leone capital to a halt
Source: Reuters - Fri, 19 Sep 2014 22:24 GMT

Author: Reuters













								More on:

																							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    	Health and Disease
							    							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    
						    

An empty street is seen at the start of a three-day national lockdown in Freetown, in an effort to halt the spread of the Ebola virus in Sierra Leone, Sept. 19, 2014. REUTERS/Umaru Fofana




















* President urges compliance with extraordinary measures
* Nearly 30,000 volunteers plan to visit every household
* Food prices soar, residents complain of shortages
* Guinea investigates killings of Ebola team (Adds U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon quote, paragraph 11)
By Umaru Fofana and Josephus Olu-Mammah
FREETOWN, Sept 19 (Reuters) - Streets in the capital of Sierra Leone were deserted on Friday as the West African state began a contested, three-day lockdown in a bid to halt the worst Ebola outbreak on record.
President Ernest Bai Koroma urged people to heed the emergency measures as health workers, some clad in protective biohazard suits, went house to house, checking on residents and marking each doorway they visited with chalk.
Radio stations played Ebola awareness jingles on repeat and encouraged residents to stay indoors.
"As they are fighting this Ebola, we pray that it will be eradicated. That's what we are praying for," said resident Mariam Bangura as she waited at her home in Freetown's West End neighbourhood. Other residents looked out over the normally bustling seaside city from windows and balconies.
Nearly 30,000 health workers, volunteers and teachers aim to visit every household in the country of six million people by Sunday to educate them about the disease and isolate the sick.
In Freetown, teams got off to a slow start, waiting several hours to receive kits containing soap, stickers and flyers.
A few police cars and ambulances, sirens blaring, were the only traffic on the otherwise empty streets. One emergency vehicle was seen stopping at a house to take on a patient.
Ebola has infected at least 5,357 people in West Africa this year, mainly in Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia, killing 2,630 of those, according to the World Health Organization. The disease has also been reported in Nigeria and Senegal.
The outbreak of the hemorrhagic fever is the worst since it was identified in 1976 in the forests of central Africa.
Western nations, led by the United States, have pledged in recent days to ramp up their aid effort and the United Nations said on Thursday it would deploy a special mission, calling the outbreak a "threat to international peace and security".
"As the disease spreads, a truth becomes clear. None of us is insulated from the threat of Ebola. All of us must be part of the response," Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the U.N. General Assembly on Friday.

EXTRAORDINARY MEASURES
In Sierra Leone, at least 562 people have died so far from the disease.
"Today, the life of everyone is at stake, but we will get over this difficulty if we all do what we have been asked to do," President Koroma said in a television address late on Thursday.
"These are extraordinary times and extraordinary times require extraordinary measures."
Some have questioned whether the campaign will be effective. Sierra Leone newspaper Awareness Times in an editorial called the preparations for the lockdown "chaotic" and recommended its postponement.
"This morning many families are calling on the radio crying because of lack of food in their homes," said Ahmed Nanoh, executive secretary of Sierra Leone's chamber of agriculture. "Food prices have gone up 30 percent. Many homes that cannot afford (food) are starving.
Medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres, which has been at the forefront of the effort to contain the epidemic, warned last week that the lock-down could lead to the concealment of cases, potentially causing the disease to spread further.
An official for the United Nations children's agency UNICEF, Roeland Monasch, said, however, that the "Ose to Ose" campaign, which means "house to house" in local Krio, would be helpful.
"If people don't have access to the right information, we need to bring life-saving messages to them, where they live, at their doorsteps," he said.
Investors are worried about the consequences of the lockdown on Sierra Leone's iron ore production. In a bid to reassure them, African Minerals Ltd. said it expected no material impact on its iron ore operations.

GUINEA PURSUES KILLERS
Healthcare workers seeking to contain the Ebola outbreak have often been met with deep mistrust, hampering their efforts to stop its spread. One team of eight educating people on Ebola risks in a remote part of southeastern Guinea were killed and their bodies dumped in a village latrine, officials said on Thursday.
While recognising that the risks faced by health workers, the World Health Organization said that the tragedy must not be allowed to derail the education effort.
"We should continue the dialogue with the community, we should continue to explain our work, continue to show our empathy with the victims, with the families, with the communities," WHO expert Pierre Formenty said.
NGOs warned in a joint statement that the Ebola crisis could set back by a decade economic progress in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, and called on more governments to follow U.S. steps to expand efforts to stop the disease's spread.
U.S. President Barack Obama said earlier this week it would deploy 3,000 military engineers and medical personnel and other troops in the region. There are currently around 20 military personnel on the ground in Liberia conducting planning and assessment for the mission.
Over the weekend, 45 more U.S. soldiers are scheduled to arrive in Liberia's capital Monrovia to begin setting up a command centre, Department of Defence spokesman Rear Admiral John Kirby said on Friday.
In a rare piece of good news, Senegal's health minister said on Friday there was no further risk of Ebola spreading in his country, following the end of a quarantine period for those who came into contact with an infected man from Guinea. State television said the 21-year-old Guinean student was being repatriated on a military aircraft.
Ebola is endemic in forest mammals in parts of Central Africa but the deadly Zaire strain has never previously appeared in West Africa. Scientists say that a fruit bat butchered as bushmeat in Guinea last December probably started the epidemic.
A parallel outbreak has so far killed 40 people out of 71 cases in the Democratic Republic of Congo. (Additional reporting by Bate Felix in Dakar, Joe Bavier in Abidjan and Phillip Stewart in Washington D.C.; Writing by Emma Farge and Joe Bavier; Editing by Crispian Balmer and Grant McCool)








We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




























										
										Ebola outbreak in West Africa











		RELATED CONTENT

	







        			
            										U.S. information chief joins response to Ebola outbreak
						
					
        			











SPOTLIGHT: Ebola outbreak in West Africa





Europe urged to end plight of 600,000 ghost people





FACTBOX: How does one end up stateless in Europe?





SPOTLIGHT: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 





Girls at risk as Bangladesh mulls lowering age of marriage







			TOPICAL CONTENT

		









		                			
			                														Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola
										
									
								






		                			
			                														WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa
										
									
								








		LATEST SLIDESHOW

	








5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls




















Nearly one in five adolescent girls is out of school. That’s 65 mln girls worldwide.
Here are 5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls







					FEATURED JOBS

				







	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Spain, France and North Africa

	                


						
												
												
												
												
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 25 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Salary: TBD  | Location:  Spain

					




	                	
	                	Climate Resilience Editor/Project Manager

	                


						
												
												
												
												
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 01 November 2014  | Job type: Contract  | Salary: TBD

					




	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Latin America 

	                


						
												
												
												
						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 31 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Location:  Argentina

					


































Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy


Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility



RSS
Newsletters
Turn off mobile site switching







Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation





Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility










View full desktop version


Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
























