Pakistan carrier headed to Ebola-hit Sierra Leone at risk: Burney – The Express TribunePakistan carrier headed to Ebola-hit Sierra Leone at risk: Burney – The Express Tribune











Daily Express
The Express Tribune
Urdu E-Paper
English E-Paper
Watch Express News Live






					Thursday, 16 Oct 2014				
Subscribe







RSS
Today's Paper 
Subscribe
 beta 2.1 


















Home
Pakistan
Business
World
Sports
Life & Style
Multimedia
Opinion
Magazine
Blogs
Jobs
Classifieds
Urdu News



 Sindh
Punjab
Balochistan
KP & FATA
Jammu & Kashmir
Gilgit Baltistan
 




















Pakistan carrier headed to Ebola-hit Sierra Leone at risk: Burney

         Says crew member­s of MV Malaka­nd are at risk of catchi­ng the virus, which could spread in Pakist­an      

By PPI 
Published: August 11, 2014



Tweet








Share this article 

Print this page

Email







                  A file image of MV Malakand. PHOTO: PPI               

KARACHI: Human rights activist Ansar Burney has appealed the government to stop a Pakistani ship from landing and staying in Sierra Leone, West Africa, where an emergency has been declared following the outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus.
A Pakistani bulk carrier ship, MV Malakand, under PNSC flag, is travelling to the Port of Sierra Leon, West Africa, and is anticipated to be anchored in next two or three days, Burney said in a statement on Monday.
While expressing deep grief and sorrow over thousands of deaths in the West African countries due to Ebola, the Ansar Burney Trust International chairman said that 25 crew members’ lives were at risk, adding that it would not be possible to refrain from spreading the virus in Pakistan.
Ebola has claimed around 1,000 lives in West African countries, including Sierra Leone. The World Health Organization (WHO) has already declared the health emergency’ in the region.
Burney requested President Mamnoon Hussain, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, the foreign office and the Ministry of Ports & Shipping to take immediate steps in this regard and issue directions to divert MV Malakand, which is currently in the open sea, to the nearest safe port for offloading.





Tweet








Share this article 

Print this page

Email








Reader Comments (6)




All Comments


Reader's Recommendations








Please

			Aug 12, 2014 - 5:53PM		

Reply




SOMEONE STOP THIS SHIP
Recommend


 





Akbar

			Aug 13, 2014 - 9:41AM		

Reply




Avoid it at all cost. Dock at a nearest port. Wait for complete prevention otherwise we will bring back and then spread this to the whole world. Atleast its contained to a large extent at this point in time. 
Recommend


 





the Skunk

			Aug 13, 2014 - 10:07AM		

Reply




Yes! Ansar Burney is CORRECT in asking for the MV Malakand be stopped from making port in Sierra Leone. The sooner the better. Salams
Recommend


 





Danish

			Aug 13, 2014 - 12:44PM		

Reply




Yes, Please stop them today.
Recommend


 





fnm

			Aug 13, 2014 - 10:50PM		

Reply




please divert them immediately, ALLAH bless them and will protect
Recommend


 





kulwant singh

			Aug 22, 2014 - 5:42AM		

Reply




The company that owns this ship is not concerned about human lives they are concerned about money otherwise they would not have taken the  load this virus did not come to light yesterday, it was known what was happening in the country where they are sending the ship.
Recommend


 



 MORE 







            Leave Your Reply Below Click here to cancel reply.





        Name (required) 





        Email         





        Location        





        Web        





Your comments may appear in The Express Tribune paper. For this reason we encourage you to provide your city. The Express Tribune does not bear any responsibility for user comments.














Notify me of followup comments via e-mail






		 Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive. For more information, please see our Comments FAQ.
	 


 Notify me of new posts by email. 







Pakistan Latest Stories






Keep it clean: In Tharparkar, most students can’t answer nature’s call at school


			the Global Handwa­shing Day is observ­ed on Octobe­r 15 and endors­ed by more than 100 govern­ments 		

Hafeez Tunio / Photo: Athar Khan










Currency: Rupee steady against dollar  


			The rupee remain­ed steady at 102.5/102.7 agains­t the dollar in the inter-bank market on Wednes­day		

Our Correspondent










Agriculture: Stress laid on productivity


			Execut­ive Direct­or of SCOPE stress­ed for awaren­ess and skill develo­pment to promot­e home produc­tion		

APP 










Casa-1000 project: Pakistan to get 1,000MW electricity


			Afghan­istan had earlie­r asked for 2.5cents per KW but the price was brough­t down to 1.25 cents per KW		

APP 










Spreading love: Indian poets bring a message of peace to Pakistan 


			They termed the skirmi­shes at the border ‘politi­cal gimmic­ks’.
		

Our Correspondent










Off to the Quaid’s mazaar: With arrangements for 150,000 people, PPP gets ready for rally


			Accord­ing to party leader­s, 22,000 vehicl­es full of people from rural Sindh will come to hear Bilawa­l
		

APP  / Our Correspondent / Photo: Rashid Ajmeri










Cabinet addition: Two new ministers take oath in K-P


			Quresh­i has been appoin­ted as the minist­er for law		

Our Correspondent










Power woes: Elders decry electricity suspension 


			power supply has not been restor­ed to their area since nearly three months 		

Our Correspondent










Sans specifics: Govt ready to hold LG polls: JI 


			Inayat­ullah Khan said the provin­cial govern­ment is ready to hold local govern­ment polls		

Our Correspondents










Not homemade: Pakistan consumes 22.8% of the region’s illicit cigarettes  


			Study says estima­ted tax loss goes down by $31 millio­n in 2013.		






Recent Slideshows











Umbrella Revolution 





In the line of fire





Skillfully sandy 





A touch of glamour





Recent Videos











PPP does not hold dharnas on anyone's dictation: Memon





PCB chairman backs Misbahul Haq's captaincy until World Cup





Intelligence tip-off foils bid to breach Karachi Central Jail: Rangers





Imran demands judicial probe into stampede








More in PakistanNo ‘permission’ given to hold Azadi, Inqilab marches in Islamabad








Pakistan SindhPunjabBalochistanKP & FATAJammu & KashmirGilgit BaltistanLife & Style BooksMusicTV & FilmFashionFoodGossipMultimedia SlideshowsVideosOpinion EditorialLetters
A -- Z

Blogs
BusinessWorldSportsMagazine

 
Others

About us
RSS Feeds
Subscribe to the Paper
Contact us
Careers
Style Guide
Online Advertising Tariff
Copyrights
Code of ethics





			This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, redistributed or derived from.
			Unless otherwise stated, all content is copyrighted © 2014 The Express Tribune News Network.
Technical feedback? webmaster@tribune.com.pk

















































