Woman ARRIVING in West Africa From Morocco Tests Positive For Ebola | Ready NutritionWoman ARRIVING in West Africa From Morocco Tests Positive For Ebola | Ready Nutrition















HOME ABOUT MEDIA CONTRIBUTE CONTACT



















 





















Homestead
Prepare
Food Storage
Market











Home  »  Health and Safety  »  Medical Emergencies  »  Woman ARRIVING in West Africa From Morocco Tests Positive For Ebola






 


Woman ARRIVING in West Africa From Morocco Tests Positive For Ebola


	Lizzie Bennett


Underground Medic













 


A South African woman from Casablanca in Morocco, has tested positive for Ebola after arriving on an Air Morok flight to Lagos, Nigeria.
Folswe Elizabeth Maria showed symptoms of the illness on the flight and was tested when the plane touched down.
An airport source speaking to The Daily Post, a Nigerian on-line newspaper, said she was arrested and quarantined immediately the test results were known.

Lagos International Airport
This has raised some very serious questions, most importantly, where did she contract the disease and who from?
If Ebola has made it to Morocco it has travelled some 3536 miles north of Lagos, and is just 270 miles from Gibraltar on the tip of southern Spain. The Strait of Gibraltar, which separates North Africa and Europe is just 8 MILES WIDE.
If Ebola has made it that far the chances of keeping it out of Europe, and the rest of the Western world has just rapidly diminished.
Take Care
Liz


Lizzie Bennett retired from her job as a senior operating department practitioner in the UK earlier this year. Her field was trauma and accident and emergency and she has served on major catastrophe teams around the UK.  Lizzie publishes Underground Medic on the topic of preparedness.

 This information has been made available by Ready Nutrition
Originally published September 15th, 2014
Google+
If you found this article useful, please Vote for Ready Nutrition as a top prepper web site.

share this article with others




































related reading


World health officials panic at rapid spread of Ebola:…Ebola Outbreak is “Spiraling Out of Control”Global Panic BeginsMinnesotan Patrick Sawyer Was One Flight Away From Becoming…World Health Organization: 40% of the 1,900 Ebola Deaths…

featured today







Death trap at the back of the drawer





Chemical present in broccoli, other vegetables may improve autism symptoms





What Rampaging Mice can Do To Your Preps





Consider This Your LAST Wake-Up Call – James Wesley Rawles









Leave A Comment...
Ready Nutrition Home Page




















Preparedness 101
Are You Ready?
52 Weeks
Disaster Scenarios
Preppernomics



Food Storage
Prep Calculators
Homestead Basics
Recipes
Sustainability
















 

























Privacy Policy

















 






Ready Nutrition Articles By Category
Looking for something specific on our site? Start your search in our list of articles by main category topic.



Preparedness 101



What Rampaging Mice can Do To Your Preps
Consider This Your LAST Wake-Up Call – James Wesley Rawles
47 Creative Uses for Self-Aid in Your 10 Piece Kit
How to Build a Simple and Affordable Methane Digester
4 Safe Edible Mushrooms for Foragers and Cheapskates
How to be a Prepper
12 Bug Out Bag Items You Might Not Know About
More from Preparedness 101





Getting Back to Basics



Food Sustainability
Microfarming
Canning
Deyhydrating
Re-purpose
Natural Medicine
Do-It-YourselfMore from Getting Back to Basics





Food Storage



What Rampaging Mice can Do To Your Preps
Germs Don't have Brains 
A Healthy Breakfast 1940s Style
10 Easy Tips to Avoid Food Storage Problems
Food Preservation at Knowle Cottage
Oops! Are you making these common kitchen mistakes?
Food Poverty: Malnutrition Diseases on the Increase
More from Food Storage






Family Preparedness



What Rampaging Mice can Do To Your Preps
Germs Don't have Brains 
HHS Prepares For Flu Pandemic That Could Kill 60 Million People
50 Things To Do During Home Quarantine
There are only 19 level 4 bio-containment beds in the U.S.
Breakdowns Could Occur Due to CDC's Failures
Contagion Blast Radius: How Far Can Ebola Droplets Travel?
More from Family Preparedness





Recipes



Breakfast
Lunch
Dinner
Soups
Breads
Snacks
Drinks
More from Recipes





Skills Training



47 Creative Uses for Self-Aid in Your 10 Piece Kit
4 Safe Edible Mushrooms for Foragers and Cheapskates
Find Food Freedom with Beekeeping
When Disaster Strikes and You Aren't Home: What To Do First
Four Ways to Increase your Survival Endurance
7 Reasons For an EDC Knife (and none of them are for self defense)
How to Escape a Submerged Car
More from Skills Training






Are You Ready?



What Rampaging Mice can Do To Your Preps
Free Mini Book: Deficiency Diseases 
US military begins constructing Ebola clinics surrounded by wire 
HHS Prepares For Flu Pandemic That Could Kill 60 Million People
There are only 19 level 4 bio-containment beds in the U.S.
Breakdowns Could Occur Due to CDC's Failures
Contagion Blast Radius: How Far Can Ebola Droplets Travel?
More from Are You Ready?





Emergency Checklist



How to be a Prepper
Getting Your Vehicle Prepped for Emergencies
CDC Issues a Checklist for Ebola Preparedness
Preparing for a Short Term SHTF
Disaster Preparedness Overload
Prepping for Civil Unrest and Martial Law
Prepping for an Ebola Lockdown
More from Emergency Checklist





Health and Safety



Death trap at the back of the drawer
Chemical present in some veggies may improve autism symptoms
Consider This Your LAST Wake-Up Call – James Wesley Rawles
47 Creative Uses for Self-Aid in Your 10 Piece Kit
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes
4 Safe Edible Mushrooms for Foragers and Cheapskates
Global Panic Begins
More from Health and Safety




















Privacy Policy







about
media
contact
contribute
syndicate





preparedness 101
food storage
homestead
52 weeks



















Community Partners



The Organic Prepper
SHTF Plan
The Daily Sheeple





Apartment Prepper
The Survival Mom
The Survivalist Blog





Prepper Website
Survivor Jane





American Preppers Net
Top Prepper Sites




Copyright Ready Nutrition 2008 - 2014. Please read our Terms & Conditions for using this web site.Ready Nutrition is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon.com. 
















homesteading for beginners

your future is being self-reliant




Moving Toward Off Grid Living
Are you pioneer ready?
Sustainable In The City
Good-bye City Life!
Living Happy, Being Free




Self-Reliance in 4 Easy Steps
10 Things That Make A Survival Homestead
Simply Simplifying

More homesteading for beginners articles...




getting back to basics

for city dwellers and country-folk alike





Microfarming
Gardening
Cooking




Dehydrating
Canning
Fermenting




Dietary Wellness
Natural Medicine
Physical Wellness




Re-purpose
Bath & Body
DIY















Privacy Policy





 





preparedness 101

it's easy to get started

The Beginner's Guide to Prepping
8 Mistakes by First-time Preppers
Family Preparedness
Essential Survival Skills
 Prepping is Timeless
Unemployment Preparedness
Bugging Out
Prepping Calculators
Do You Have the Attitude to Survive?
More from  preparedness 101




are you ready?

be prepared for anything




72-Hour Survival Kit
Food
Water Provisions
First Aid
Dental
Sanitation




Security & Safety
Alternative Power
Shelter & Clothing
Prepper-nomics
The Prepared Pet
Emergency Checklists




disaster planning

Hurricane, Earthquake, Nuclear, Pandemic, Tornado,Evacuations,     Heat Wave, Flooding, Flash Mobs, See All


















food storage starters

for beginners and seasoned preppers

The One Year Pantry
Put These 25 Foods In Your Pantry

Foods that Last a Lifetime
more food storage...

packing your pantry




popular storage methods

dry goods storage
canning and preserving
dehydrated food
freezing



inventory management

first-time food shopping
food storage calculator
emergency checklists












recipes




by food group




breads
grains
dairy




meats
veggies
sweets






meal planning




breakfast
lunch
dinner




soups
snacks
drinks







featured topics

important charts, lists and calculators

10 Rules For Your Emergency Food Pantry
4 Things You Must Eat To Avoid Malnutrition
Top 25 Survival Seeds You Need For Your Garden
more featured topics...














We're working hard to finish up our new marketplace, where you'll be able to find all of your preparedness, homesteading and food storage needs. The market will feature organic foods, preparedness supplies and unique solutions from local farmers and small businesses from around the country. 
Sign up for our newsletter below and we'll let you know as soon as it's ready.









Privacy Policy
























