Canada’s team fighting Ebola evacuated from eastern Sierra Leone | Toronto StarCanada’s team fighting Ebola evacuated from eastern Sierra Leone | Toronto Star




































Wednesday, October 15, 2014
3:52 PM EDT





the star.com
World







Search the archives



















Home

News

GTA
Queen's Park
Canada
World
Investigations
Crime



Your Toronto

City Nights
Schools
The Fixer
Reviews
Traffic



Opinion

Editorials
Commentary
Readers' Letters
Public Editor
Corrections
Editorial Cartoon



Sports

Hockey
Baseball
Basketball
Football
Soccer
Amateur
Tennis
Golf
Figure Skating
Curling
Lacrosse



Business

Economy
Personal Finance
Tech News
Real Estate



Entertainment

Television
Movies
Stage
Music
Books
Visual Arts



Life

Technology
Food & Wine
Travel
Fashion & Style
Homes
Health & Wellness
Parent



Autos


Photos


Diversions

Classifieds
Obituaries







Inside the Star





Ontario health minister pledges review of generic drug-cost study





Blue Jays fixture Ralph The Program Guy dies at 67





Liberal MPPs block release of MaRS financial details







News 
  				
  			/ World


Canada’s team fighting Ebola evacuated from eastern Sierra Leone
Canadian scientists were working at a treatment centre operated by Medecins Sans Frontieres in Kailahun region of country.







Share on Facebook


Tweet

















A
A







Comments
?



Republish





Report an Error








Share via Email
Print










				JENNY YANG
				/ The Toronto Star

                
			

				The WHO's most recent report said there have been more than 2,600 infections and 1,400 deaths, making this the largest Ebola outbreak on record.
			









By:
Jennifer Yang
Global health reporter,
 Published on Wed Aug 27 2014






















At the Ebola treatment centre in eastern Sierra Leone, a recent August day saw more than 60 patients that needed tending to. Among them were an ambulance full of villagers suspected of Ebola, patients sleeping in a tent as they awaited their diagnoses, and a young man eager to be discharged after two weeks of treatment in isolation. 
Dealing quickly with these patients depended on work being done inside two tents at the Médecins Sans Frontières treatment centre — the mobile laboratory, where a rotating team of Canadian scientists have been testing blood samples to determine which patients to admit and which to discharge. But after a Senegalese epidemiologist deployed by the World Health Organization tested positive for Ebola over the weekend, the United Nations agency has pulled its people from eastern Sierra Leone, including the Canadian team, which is now being evacuated home by private charter.
With the lab currently out of commission, blood samples at the MSF centre will need to be sent by car to Kenema, a city four to six hours away over a bumpy road prone to flooding during the rainy season. The Kenema facility is also the sole remaining Ebola lab operating in Sierra Leone, where the outbreak, which has now caused more than 900 reported cases in this country alone, continues to spiral out of control.
“Without a lab, everything is slower,” said MSF spokesperson Karin Ekholm, speaking from the capital, Freetown. “It makes the whole process smoother when we can discharge or confirm cases more regularly . . . and not keep people waiting for the test results.”
The Canadian team was first deployed to West Africa at the request of the WHO after Sierra Leone confirmed its first case in late May. In an emailed statement on Wednesday, the Public Health Agency of Canada said its team, the third it has deployed to the region, will end its deployment early as a “precautionary measure after people in their hotel complex were confirmed to be infected with the Ebola virus.”
“The employees are in good health, show no signs of illness and the risk that any of them were infected is very low,” the statement said. “As an added precaution, the employees will not be travelling on a commercial flight to Canada, will be monitored closely on their journey home and after they return to Canada, and will be in voluntary isolation.”
The Senegalese epidemiologist has now been evacuated to Germany for treatment and was well enough to walk into his aircraft, according to WHO spokesperson Christy Feig.
Investigations are underway to try and determine how the Senegalese epidemiologist was sickened, and a WHO team is now in eastern Sierra Leone examining the living spaces and workplaces used by their people.
“(Evacuating) was the responsible thing to do. The field team has been through a traumatic time with this incident,” said Dr. Daniel Kertesz, the WHO’s representative in Sierra Leone, in a written statement Tuesday. “They are exhausted from many weeks of heroic work, helping patients infected with Ebola. When you add a stressor like this, the risk of accidents increases.”
Citing privacy reasons, the Canadian government is not releasing the names of the scientists or their scheduled time of arrival home. It is also unclear when they or another Canadian team might go back to Sierra Leone but in an earlier written statement, spokesperson Sean Upton said the health agency is “preparing to send another team to Sierra Leone once appropriate steps have been taken to ensure a safe living environment.”
MSF’s Ekholm said the Canadian scientists “would be welcome back when they want” at both the treatment centre and the hotel, which they have now restricted to MSF personnel only. No MSF staffers at the hotel are currently showing any signs or symptoms, according to Ekholm.
Meanwhile, a senior adviser to Sierra Leone’s president said on Wednesday that a third physician in the country, Dr. Sahr Rogers, has died from Ebola after contracting the virus in Kenema. Across the four West African countries affected by the epidemic, more than 2,615 cases and 1,427 deaths have now been reported, with Liberia currently recording the highest number of cases.
The situation in Liberia is particularly worrisome and a recently opened MSF treatment centre has already filled its 120 beds, with plans to further expand.
 “Self-protection is occupying the entire focus of states that have the expertise and resources to make a dramatic difference in the affected countries. They can do more, so why don’t they?” Brice de la Vigne, MSF’s director of operations, is quoted as saying in a written statement. 
A new Ebola outbreak was also recently confirmed in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the WHO is reporting 24 suspected cases and 13 deaths. So far, the DRC outbreak appears to be a separate event with no link to the West African epidemic, the WHO said.


More on thestar.com
Canadians in Ebola’s hot zone

The grim view from Ebola’s Ground Zero

Reporting from Ebola’s hot zone


























More on thestar.com








Magnotta murder trial: Biologist found victim's blood all over apartment









Drone at Serbia-Albania soccer match sparks diplomatic incident









Read more about:
Global health







We value respectful and thoughtful discussion. Readers are encouraged to flag comments that fail to meet the standards outlined in our
				  Community Code of Conduct.
				  For further information, including our legal guidelines, please see our full website
				  Terms and Conditions.
Commenting is now closed.















































Top News





NEW
								Stuart Murray out as head of Canadian human rights museumcomments



NEW
								Magnotta murder trial: Biologist found victim's blood all over apartmentcomments



Updated
								Liberals quietly changed rules to loan MaRS $224 millioncomments



NEW
								Missing 12-year-old girl sought by police



Updated
								Video game critic cancels Utah speech after ‘Montreal Massacre’ threat



Updated
								Chow says Union Station can’t handle Tory's SmartTrack volumecomments



Updated
								Elliot Lake mall collapse result of years of neglect: inquiry comments



Updated
								Man wanted for sexually assaulting woman during massage







commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo






commercial promo





Apply yourself






Partner ContentSaving wheelchair patients from deadly pain






First Reel Movies: The Judge






A first time for everything






The Kit: 10 Fall floral Picks to Buy Now















World stories map
All the countries from which the Star has reported since late 2011.







The World Daily blog
The Star's foreign desk covers the best stories from the around the globe.













On Twitter











Popular Photo Galleries






Photos


News | Toronto Star
The Oscar Pistorius trial in photos



Photos


News | Toronto Star
It's all happening at the Zoo



Photos


News | Toronto Star
Brazilians mourn Eduardo Campos





























Back to Mobile


 





















































thestar.com

News
Your Toronto
Opinion
Sports
Business
Entertainment
Life
Diversions
Classifieds
Site Map




 

Wheels.ca
Insurance Hotline
New in Homes
Star Store
Blogs
Contests
Lottery Results
Obituaries
Corrections
Public Editor
Behavioural Targeting
Today's News




Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd.

About
Atkinson Principles
Statement of Principles
Get Home Delivery
My Subscription
Contact Us
Contact Webmaster
FAQ
News Releases
Star Internships
Careers @ the Star




Advertise with us

Advertising Terms
Mediakit
Online Advertising
Print Advertising
Special Features




Initiatives

Santa Claus Fund
Fresh Air Fund
Speakers Bureau
Classroom Connection
Pages of the Past
Report on Community Giving




Connect with Us

RSS feeds
Twitter Updates
News Alerts
Newsletters
Mobile Devices





© Copyright Toronto Star Newspapers Ltd. 1996-2014

Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy

































