‘It doesn’t make sense’: Concerns over enlisting DoD in Ebola response | Fox News‘It doesn’t make sense’: Concerns over enlisting DoD in Ebola response | Fox News



Search



Sign in to comment!Login


Fox News Home
Watch Live
Trending
Video

Politics

Politics Home
Midterm Elections
Executive
Senate
House of Representatives
Defense
Judiciary
Scandals
Congress To-Do List



U.S.

U.S. Home
Crime
Terrorism
Economy
Immigration
Disasters
Military
Education
Environment
Personal Freedoms
Regions



Opinion

Opinion Home
Todd Starnes
Judith Miller
Juan Williams
KT McFarland
Dr. Keith Ablow
Karl Rove
Ric Grenell



Entertainment

[FOX411] HOME
Celebrity News
Movies
TV
Music
Style
[FOX411] Video



Tech

Tech Home
Gadgets
Google
Social
Military Tech
Smartphones
Video Games
Slideshows



Science

Science Home
Archaeology
Air & Space
Planet Earth
Wild Nature
Natural Science
Dinosaurs
Slideshows



Health

Health Home
Men's Health
Women's Health
Children's Health
Alternative Medicine
Diabetes
Heart Health
Allergies
Nutrition & Fitness



Travel

Travel Home
Slideshows
In 5 Guides



Lifestyle

Lifestyle Home
Auto
Food & Drink
Real Estate
Recipes
Wine with Me



World

World Home
U.N.
Conflicts
Terrorism
Disasters
Global Economy
Environment
Religion
Scandals
Regions



Sports

Sports Home
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Baseball
College Sports
Tennis
Nascar
Golf
More Sports
Stats



On Air

On Air Home
A Healthy You & Carol Alt
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox Files
Fox & Friends First
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Sunday
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity
Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
#mediabuzz
Outnumbered
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Shepard Smith Reporting
Special Report
Specials
Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The Kelly File
The O'Reilly Factor
The Real Story w/ Gretchen Carlson
War Stories



More from Fox News

Fox News
Fox Business
Fox News Latino
Fox News Go
Fox News Radio
Fox Nation
Fox News Insider








Fox News
Fox Business
Fox News Latino
Fox News Go
Fox News Radio
Fox Nation
Fox News Insider







Menu


Home
FoxNews.com
Politics


Search


















					Politics Home



					Midterm Elections



					Executive



					Senate



					House of Representatives



					Defense



					Judiciary



					Scandals






Politics
‘It doesn’t make sense’: Concerns over enlisting DoD in Ebola response


By  Lucas TomlinsonPublished September 14, 2014FoxNews.com



Facebook0
Twitter0
livefyre
Email
Print






Sept. 10, 2014: Health workers load the body of a woman they suspect died from the Ebola virus onto a truck in Monrovia, Liberia. (AP)


The Obama administration’s decision to enlist the Defense Department in responding to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is raising concerns that the task is pulling the already-stretched military away from other missions, including vital counter-terrorism operations.
According to a senior military official, General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs, said at a recent meeting: "The Department of Defense's number one priority is combating Ebola."ADVERTISEMENTADVERTISEMENT
However, a Defense Department source told Fox News that alarms had been raised about the decision.
“We don’t need to be taking planners away from the CT [counterterrorism] mission, and that is what is going on,” the Defense Department source said.
USAID and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are already involved, but President Obama said in an interview last weekend that the U.S. military is being brought in to help stanch the deadly epidemic. Obama said the military could help set up isolation units and provide security for health workers, among other tasks.
But the decision comes as the military is already engaged in counter-terrorism operations in Africa, and as the president expands the campaign in the Middle East against the Islamic State.
The Defense source said the White House is behind the move to involve the Defense Department, and a meeting of key leaders was set up for Friday afternoon at the White House.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest announced that Obama will visit the CDC in Atlanta on Tuesday to receive a briefing on Ebola and thank scientists for their effort combating the disease. 
But the Defense source said that military leaders were “cornered” by the White House with the response mission, and that USAID and CDC are “begging” for military help when they should be the “lead.” The source said the government is turning to DOD because the NGOs that agencies typically work with on the ground have fled.
A USAID official denies the agency has asked DoD to “take the lead” with Ebola.  “It’s an interagency response, we all have a role to play.”
With the military stretched as it is, the source said, “Africa Command has Libya, LRA (in Uganda), Somalia, Nigeria to worry about.”
But the source said Africa Command, or AFRICOM, has been furiously preparing its plans all the same.
Rear Admiral John Kirby, Pentagon spokesman, responded to Fox News Saturday night about AFRICOM's Ebola planning taking away resources from counterterrorism.
"Since no additional decisions have been made about DoD support to Africa, there has been no impact to AFRICOM's resources,” he said. "Whatever capabilities we may lend would be in support of USAID and the State Department."
On Sunday, Dempsey spokesman Col. Ed Thomas said: "Developing options to support broader government efforts led by USAID and State is a priority and the chairman was been watching the developing situation for several weeks now."
House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon, R-Calif., at an American Enterprise Institute address on Thursday, also raised concerns about the military being tapped for this mission.
“We keep asking our military to do more and more. The other day I saw that they’re going to be asked to go help solve the Ebola crisis,” McKeon said. “And at the same time we’re saying go do this, and then taking away their resources with the other hand – it doesn’t make sense.”
The Washington Post reported that Laurie Garrett, a health expert with the Council on Foreign Relations, echoed that point, saying “the cavalry is not going to ride to the rescue.”
According to the Post, Defense Department spending has decreased 21 percent since 2010.
But as part of the first steps in tackling the Ebola crisis, the Pentagon is sending health workers in Liberia a “25-bed facility,” according to Pentagon spokesman Rear Adm. John Kirby.   
A USAID official acknowledged the volunteer effort in West Africa is lower than in past natural disasters but told Fox News: "While there are some NGO’s in the affected region that are reassessing based on safety/security issues, we still have trusted partners who are working on the emergency response despite these dangerous conditions."
The efforts come amid dire warnings about the possibility that Ebola could spread, mutate or both.
Obama defended the decision to bring in the military in an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press,” calling it a “national security priority.”
“If we don't make that effort now, and this spreads not just through Africa, but other parts of the world, there's the prospect then that the virus mutates, it becomes more easily transmittable, and then it could be a serious danger to the United States,” he said.
Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, also wrote in The New York Times that a possibility experts are reluctant to acknowledge publicly is that “an Ebola virus could mutate to become transmissible through the air.” It is currently only transmitted by contact with bodily fluids.
The other U.S. lead agencies are also expanding their role in Africa. USAID announced earlier this week that U.S. funding will be used to transport 100 health workers to the region, part of the United States’ $100 million response to date.
“The U.S. is committed to supporting the African Union's response to the urgent needs across West Africa as a result of this vicious disease. We can and will stop this epidemic, but it will take a coordinated effort by the entire global community,” USAID Administrator Rajiv Shah said in a statement.
The White House is also seeking another $88 million from Congress for the CDC’s efforts, according to a senior administration official.
FoxNews.com’s Judson Berger contributed to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Advertisement













				    Trending in Politics



1
Military campaign against ISIS gets a name 




2
GOP brass stand by House candidate DeMaio in wake of sexual harassment claims 




3
Pentagon reportedly withheld info about decades-old chem weapons during Iraq War




4
Ebola diagnosis for 2nd Texas hospital worker raising questions over virus battle plan  




5
Obama cancels trip to meet on Ebola outbreak



See all Trends



Advertisement
















America's Election HQ

See the latest updates on the hottest midterm races from Fox News
Full Elections Coverage →





















Fox NewsPolitics


Politics Home
Executive
Senate
House of Representatives
Defense
Judiciary
Scandals
Congress To-Do List




Presidential Approval



Approve
51%


Disapprove
47%

More details →



Congressional Approval



Approve
13%


Disapprove
75%

More details →



FoxNews.com
Back to Top


©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ













