#Ebola: Two people released from quarantine in Port Harcourt - YNaijaYNaija#Ebola: Two people released from quarantine in Port Harcourt - YNaijaYNaija






Home | About Us | Contact Us











 


















Home
News
Opinion
Politics
Entertainment
More

30 days
Around the Web
#BringBackOurGirls
Celebrity
Ebola
Economy
Fashion & Style
Life
Long read
Odd World
Sports
Technology


 




 













Tweet














#Ebola: Two people released from quarantine in Port Harcourt
Posted 1 month  ago










by Tony Tamuno
A doctor and a pharmacist quarantined after they showed symptoms similar to the Ebola Virus Disease in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital, have been allowed to return to their homes after testing negative to the deadly virus.
However, a female patient, who like the doctor and the pharmacist had direct contact with Dr. Ikechukwu Enemuo, the doctor who died of the disease after he treated an infected ECOWAS staff secretly in a hotel room, tested positive to the virus.
Rivers State Health Commissioner, Dr. Samson Parker, who briefed the media on Monday, said the female doctor shared a room with the late Dr. Enemuo at the Good Heart Hospital where he was first treated.
He also said that Enemuo’s sister, Chinyere, who fled to Aba, has returned and is presently in quarantine at an isolation facility.
“I told you yesterday that we had three patients, and out of the three patients, the result came out; two of them were negative and one was positive. The two negative ones have now left the isolation centre but we will repeat the tests because they are still within the 21 days circle of the virus,” Parker said.




Article Categories: Ebola








 Recent Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)






  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members






  
No time to waste: Desmond Elliot and Tony Tetuila take baby steps to political office (PHOTOS)






  
Buhari and Atiku are failures | APC will be relevant in 2019 | GEJ is being pressured to contest – Doyin Okupe had a lot to say in new address






  
“Kiss and make up” – President Jonathan urges Perm. secretaries and Ministers to work in harmony






  
Finally, she get’s something wrong: Beyonce’s fans are not happy with new hairstyle






  
Not yet Uhuru: Fred Ajudua still has a case to answer despite High court acquittal









 Related Posts


 Popular Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)







  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members







condolence







  
Opinion: Jungle Justice: I am with Aluu Community











Previous Article  Army beats back Boko Haram at Bama 
Next Article   It’s here! Emma Nyra features Davido in ‘Elele’ (WATCH)




 Comments

















 Pingback: #Ebola: Two people released from quarantine in Port Harcourt - GIST LOADED 









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Google+.





Loading Facebook Comments ...


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Facebook.










 Subscribe to YNaija

Enter your email address to subscribe to YNaija and receive notifications of new posts by email.









 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 














 



                        YNaija © 2014            
        
















            
                                
            Menu Title                
                        
        
Home
Fashion & Style
Entertainment & Lifestyle
Politics & Advocacy
Opinion & Reviews
Life
Rubbin’ Minds
About
Where to Buy Y!
Contact Us
Subscribe
Be A Rep
Merchandise
What is Y!
Advertisers













 























