US Will Send 3,000 Troops to Africa to Fight Ebola as Virus Begins Spreading Even FasterUS Will Send 3,000 Troops to Africa to Fight Ebola as Virus Begins Spreading Even Faster




 

 
 
 

HomeNews
Politics
Entertainment
Sports
Technology
Weird
Op-Ed
  
 
 
 
US Will Send 3,000 Troops to Africa to Fight Ebola as Virus Begins Spreading Even Faster

			By Reagan Wilson on
			September 16, 2014
 



Tweet






				      
							
		
 
 
 
 
 





The United States is going to send 3,000 troops to Africa to fight the ebola virus and help contain its spread.
According to TIME,
The United States is dramatically escalating its efforts to combat the spread of Ebola in West Africa, President Barack Obama will announce Tuesday during a visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
The unprecedented response will include the deployment of 3,000 U.S. military forces and more than $500 million in defense spending drawn from funding normally used for efforts like the war in Afghanistan, senior administration officials outlined Monday. Obama has called America’s response to the disease a “national-security priority,” with top foreign policy and defense officials leading the government’s efforts.



The move comes after all efforts to date have failed to slow down the current strain of ebola currently affecting Africa.
The current strain is proving to be more contagious than previous iterations and it is feared by infectious disease experts that if it’s not contained in Africa it could spread further.
Currently, the virus isn’t even slowing down. In fact, it’s infecting people at an exponentially faster.
According to a recent piece in WIRED,
The most arresting is a piece published last week in the journal Eurosurveillance, which is the peer-reviewed publication of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (the EU’s Stockholm-based version of the US CDC). The piece is an attempt to assess mathematically how the epidemic is growing, by using case reports to determine the “reproductive number.” (Note for non-epidemiology geeks: The basic reproductive number — usually shorted to R0 or “R-nought” — expresses how many cases of disease are likely to be caused by any one infected person. An R0 of less than 1 means an outbreak will die out; an R0 of more than 1 means an outbreak can be expected to increase. If you saw the movie Contagion, this is what Kate Winslet stood up and wrote on a whiteboard early in the film.)
The Eurosurveillance paper, by two researchers from the University of Tokyo and Arizona State University, attempts to derive what the reproductive rate has been in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. (Note for actual epidemiology geeks: The calculation is for the effective reproductive number, pegged to a point in time, hence actually Rt.) They come up with an R of at least 1, and in some cases 2; that is, at certain points, sick persons have caused disease in two others.
Perhaps the government’s decision is in part a response to statements made by Dr. Richard E. Besser, former director of the CDC,
The level of response to the Ebola outbreak is totally inadequate. At the CDC, we learned that a military-style response during a major health crisis saves lives…
We need to establish large field hospitals staffed by Americans to treat the sick. We need to implement infection-control practices to save the lives of health-care providers. We need to staff burial teams to curb disease transmission at funerals. We need to implement systems to detect new flare-ups that can be quickly extinguished. A few thousand U.S. troops could provide the support that is so desperately needed.
Thoughts on this latest move?


 



About Reagan Wilson


Reagan is the founder and editor of Controversial Times. He is a libertarian leaning conservative. Sarcasm is his second language, and if you aren't fluent you might take his articles too seriously. Craft beer, football season (college & pro) and fine watches round out his interests.







 
 

 





 




Get Daily Email Updates

Email Address 





 






 


Latest Stories



BREAKING: Ebola Infected Healthcare Worker Traveled by Air 24 Hours Before Diagnosis
October 15, 2014 



BREAKING NEWS: Second Healthcare Worker Tests Positive for Ebola in Texas
October 15, 2014 



MUST SEE: What One ‘Frustrated Parent’ Wrote On His Kids Common Core Math Homework
October 15, 2014 


  





 
 



 





 
 
 




Controversial Times








 


 
Contact UsPrivacy Policy
 
 


 
 





 
