  Airline suspends flights over Ebola fears  Airline suspends flights over Ebola fears















×

        Get WND's mobile app for free.
    



Simply tap the  button below, and choose
"Add to Home Screen"
The mobile shortcut will then be added as an icon on your home screen.



Press your menu button and find the option to bookmark this page (a star icon for some browsers).  Then choose the option to add this bookmark to your home screen.













Login
Create Account
Logout
Profile







FRONTPAGE

politics
u.s.
world
faith
health
education



OPINION

commentary
email to the editor
cartoons
forums
commentator lineup




WND TV

WND TV NEWS
News! News! with DJ Dolce
For The Record with Molotov Mitchell
Beyond Belief with George Noory
IT'S SUPERNATURAL! with Sid Roth
SURVIVAL TIPS with Manny Edwards
The Watchman with Erick Stakelbeck
Sons of Liberty with Bradlee Dean
The Glazov Gang with Jamie Glazov
The Watchers with 
Focus on Israel with Laurie Cardoza-Moore with 
Zero To Superhero with 
The Heavens Declare with David Rives
Just The Facts with Richard Rives




MONEY


no more red ink



DIVERSIONS


reviews
joke of the day




Desktop Site







Menu













WND


whistleblower /
WND Weekly

Trial /
Monthly /
ANNUAL
Donate To WND /
Customer Service


Subscribe /
Gift /
Renew
Donate To WND /
Customer Service




 


Login   |
Create Account
Logout   |
Profile 






Follow






Frontpage

Politics
U.S.
World
Faith
Health
Education


WND TV

Molotov Mitchell
DJ Dolce
Erick Stakelbeck
Bradlee Dean
David Rives
Richard Rives


Opinion

Commentary
Email to the Editor
Cartoons
Forums
Commentator Lineup


Money

Market Overview
Sectors
Stocks
Mutual Funds & ETF's
Currencies
No More Red Ink


Diversions

TV Guide
MovieGuide
Reviews
Joke of the Day


Superstore

Books
Video
Homefront
Specialty Items
Subscriptions
99 Cent Store
Preparedness


 


WND Exclusive: Obama blasted as 'clueless' on Ebola
WND Exclusive: Ted Cruz blasts Houston mayor for demanding sermons
WND Exclusive: Ebola horror: Infected nurse flew U.S. airline
WND Exclusive: Caught 'red-handed': News-site deception uncovered
WND Exclusive: Banned billboards return for 2014 election
WND Exclusive: CNN goes to war with broadcast giant on Ebola
WND Exclusive: California fixes highway, so why is Marine still jailed?
WND Exclusive: Illegals from Afghanistan claim to be Mexican
WND Exclusive: Schlafly: Nurse's Ebola infection 'all Obama's fault'
WND Exclusive: Ebola? Look out for another debilitating virus

  > 
















OUTBREAK!
Airline suspends flights over Ebola fears
Decision comes after some employees refuse to board 
Published: 08/27/2014 at 1:52 PM


 
Jerome R. Corsi
About

										    | Email  
                    						
						| Archive



						Jerome R. Corsi, a Harvard Ph.D., is a WND senior staff reporter. He has authored many books, including No. 1 N.Y. Times best-sellers "The Obama Nation" and "Unfit for Command." Corsi's latest book is  "Who Really Killed Kennedy?" 


 Subscribe to feed








 Text smaller 
Text bigger














NEW YORK – Air France announced Wednesday morning it has suspended all flights to Sierra Leone after a recommendation by the French government council of ministers.




The move follows an Air France announcement Aug. 19 that some employees had refused to board flights to West African countries where the Ebola outbreak is raging, including Sierra Leone. The employees were responding to a call by the airline’s union, Syndicat National Du Groupe, for “an immediate end” to all Air France flight service to countries affected by the outbreak.
Some African-based airlines, including Kenya Airways, already have suspended flights to Monrovia, Liberia; Conakry, Guinea; and Freetown, Sierra Leone.
However, the physician coordinating the United Nations response to the outbreak, Dr. David Nabarro, contends suspending flights to West Africa has hindered international efforts to combat the virus.
“The understandable decisions made by certain airlines to cease flights serving Freetown, Monrovia and Conakry has had an enormous impact on the capacity of the United Nations to transport health workers and equipment,” Nabarro said Wednesday, the Paris paper Le Monde reported.
He argued airline crew members and passengers “generally have a very low risk of contamination.”
Dr. Peter Piot, the Belgium microbiologist credited as co-discoverer of the Ebola virus in 1976, said in an interview published Tuesday he believes the efforts to contain the outbreak in West Africa are doomed to failure.
“The Ebola outbreak has exploded in West African nations where the health services, ravaged by decades of war, simply do not function,” Piot told the French publication Libération.
“The exposed populations in West Africa have no confidence in the health system, preferring instead to cling to cultural habits such as touching the corpse in the funeral process, when the body is most infectious, and physical contact with the bodily fluids of a contaminated person are a major way the virus spreads,” he said.
Piot also lamented that the U.N.’s World Health Organization began major health operations to combat Ebola in West Africa only in July. The outbreak began in January.
“In recent years, many treatments and vaccines have been developed thanks to American financing in the war to combat bio-terrorism,” he noted. “Now it’s time we make the products available to the affected countries.”
WND reported Tuesday the WHO has scheduled a closed-door conference with some 100 health care experts to consider alternative medical treatments and experimental drugs available for treating Ebola and make recommendations.
The Japanese company Toyama Chemical, a pharmaceutical subsidiary of the photo giant Fujifilm, already has promised to deliver to the WHO at no cost a quantity of the experimental drug Favipiravir. Fujifilm is in talks with the U.S. Food and Drug administration through a U.S. partner, Boston-based MediVector, to clinically test the drug in the U.S, the Associated Press reported Monday.




 Text smaller 
Text bigger





























Follow WND On

Facebook:




Twitter:Follow @worldnetdaily









Contribute

Contact Us
Send a Link
Send Corrections


Send a Tip
Send Photos/Videos
Send comments





Note: Read our discussion guidelines before commenting.











 
 WND Related Stories 

Obama blasted as 'clueless' on Ebola 


Ebola horror: Infected nurse flew U.S. airline


CNN goes to war with broadcast giant on Ebola


Contact of Dallas nurse monitored for Ebola


Ebola? Look out for another debilitating virus


WHO: Ebola 'out of control' in West Africa


Putin offers WHO experimental Ebola vaccine


Ebola: Obama accused of 'facilitating terrorism'


Decorated combat troops sent to fight Ebola 


CDC still blaming Dallas nurse for Ebola infection


U.S. prepared for Ebola ... 10 patients at a time


Health worker in Dallas tests positive for Ebola


Obama finding 'new ways to put my son's life in danger'


Is protective gear inadequate to stop Ebola?


Americans riveted by Ebola


Here's where Ebola could spread next


Treat weaponized Ebola 'as nuclear attack'


Cremations protested as Liberia's Ebola turmoil escalates


Ebola decimates Duncanâs neighborhood in Liberia


Liberia stifles Ebola media coverage


Texas Ebola patient dies


Feds zip lips on 'life-saving' Ebola treatment


Ebola scandal in Liberia: No soap, no bleach, no gloves


Double-reverse on Ebola military mission


WHO admits sneezing could transmit Ebola


Ebola across Europe 'unavoidable'


Congressmen to Obama: Define troops' Ebola mission


U.S. military mission on Ebola still vague


Boots on ground: American civilians joining Ebola fight


Generals blast Obama's order of troops to fight Ebola


Panic hits home of Dallas Ebola victim


Move over Ebola, 'real killer' is coming


Israel snubs Obama plea for personnel in Ebola zone


CDC insists, 'We know how to stop Ebola spread' 


Americans close homes to Liberian travelers


CDC 'lying' to public about Ebola, doctor says


Pentagon sending more U.S. soldiers to fight Ebola


2005: Obama rips Bush on flu response


Outrage! Ebola vomit washed down storm drain


Ebola's airborne-transmission threat downplayed


Dogs eat Ebola victims, spread plague


Defense Dept. won't define military's Ebola mission


Rand Paul: Imagine ship full of U.S. soldiers with Ebola


Still hundreds of ways to fly from Liberia to U.S.


Obama dumped Bush-era quarantine proposal


Michael Savage blames 'President Obola' for virus in U.S.


WHO: No Ebola vaccine until mid-2015?


Ebola unstoppable without total quarantine


Breaking: Ebola confirmed inside U.S.


Flights posing Ebola risk to U.S. continue


U.S. has awarded millions to find Ebola vaccine


Democrats using Ebola to scare up cash


Obama using Ebola to turn military into social workers?


Military expert: Obama 'confused' on national security


U.S. officials in meltdown on Obama's Ebola mission


General: Sending military to fight Ebola 'misuse' of soldiers


6,000 U.N. peacekeepers not trained to fight Ebola


Cuban communists aid WHO in Ebola battle


1.2 million Ebola deaths projected in 6 months


Ebola co-discoverer: 'Perfect storm' fueling outbreak


Pilots demand right to refuse flights to West Africa


West Africa risks abandonment due to Ebola


1 in 10 health-care workers treating Ebola gets infected


WHO confirms Ebola treatments in regulatory hold-up


WHO chief: Ebola not 'African disease'


Dozens of Ebola drugs stuck in approval process


Experts warn Ebola outbreak 'out of control'


Doctors lack knowledge to fight Ebola, says WHO


WHO sets stage to OK experimental Ebola drugs


Ebola plush toy on list of 'pretty sick products'


Ebola scare hits U.S. 68 times in 3 weeks


WHO pushes mega-quarantine to control Ebola


World Health blesses untested Ebola treatment


U.S. hospitals not ready for Ebola outbreak


WHO: Ebola 'extraordinary event' threatening to spread


What Ebola outbreak would look like in U.S.


CDC chief: U.S. in 'perfect storm health emergency'


Liberia: Ebola a plague from God due to sin


Cough and a fever? White suit for you


Military, police deployed to contain Ebola


Rush: Why is Obama bringing Ebola to U.S.?


WHO: Travel restrictions wonât stop Ebola spread


WHO: Ebola outbreak 'accelerating'


CDC chief: Ebola 'could arrive in the U.S.'


CDC issues Ebola airline advisory


Ebola: 'It's close, it's at our front door'


Could Ebola sneak across U.S. border?


WHO urges global effort to contain Ebola


U.N.: Ebola outbreak could become pandemic


Promising Ebola treatment faces hurdles


Deadly Ebola virus spreads


Terrifying Ebola outbreak spreading fast


  WND Exclusive Commentary



 

BETWEEN THE LINES
Joseph Farah
Ebola mission: Who's on first?




 

WARS AND RUMORS OF WARS
Morgan Brittany
ISIS has a mission – what about Obama?




 

FOR THE RECORD
Molotov Mitchell
Transgender woman-beating




 

HOME OF THE BRAVE
Ben Carson
Americans: Gather the courage that forged this nation




 

WARS AND RUMORS OF WARS
Barry Farber
O's foreign policy: Cosmic stupidity



More Commentary »


 


 
Deal of the Day 

 

'The REAL Benghazi Story' – $4.95 today only!


                $21 discount on sensational exposé of scandal 'bigger than Watergate, Iran-Contra'            
 
 



 







 






 






 





sections

WND TV
Commentary
Politics
U.S.
World
Faith
Health
Education
Money
Diversions


features

Cartoons
Reviews
Daily Blessing
Email to the Editor
Forums
Petitions
Joke of the Day


resources

About WND
Advertising
Commentator Lineup
Donate to WND
News Alerts
G2 Bulletin
Red Alert
WND Superstore
WND Books
Whistleblower


WND Weekly

Who Reads Us
Who's Who at WND
WND History
WND Scoops
Mobile WND


 


Contact WND

Advertising Inquiries
Corrections
Email to the Editor
News Tips
Testimonials
Questions






© Copyright 1997-2014. All Rights Reserved. WND.com.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
	    



DESKTOP
MOBILE

 









