Lagos Ebola patients neglected, critically ill – Relatives, colleaguesLagos Ebola patients neglected, critically ill – Relatives, colleagues












The Punch - Nigeria's Most Widely Read NewspaperBreaking News, information and opinion in NigeriaOctober 15th, 2014














   

   
HomeMetro Plusi-punchNewsWorldPoliticsBusinessAppointmentsTransportMoneyCapital MarketBusiness & EconomyInternational BusinessAM BusinessSportsOpinionViewpointLettersHealthScience WorldHealthwiseFeatureMidweek RevueBlogsJobsForumYou are here: Home / News / Lagos Ebola patients neglected, critically ill – Relatives, colleaguesLagos Ebola patients neglected, critically ill – Relatives, colleagues
August 14, 2014  by TEMITAYO FAMUTIMI and AFEEZ HANAFI  






Relatives and associates of the female medical doctor and other health workers who contracted the Ebola Virus Disease from the late Liberian-American, Patrick Sawyer, share the gloomy experiences of the victims with TEMITAYO FAMUTIMI and AFEEZ HANAFI
“Go there yourself and witness firsthand the condition under which they are being taken care of,” Dr. Helen Boyo-Ekwueme charged at one of the journalists inquiring about the welfare of the health workers battling with Ebola, at the Infectious Diseases Hospital, Yaba, Lagos.
The atmosphere was tense. Relatives and professional colleagues of the female medical doctor and other health workers, who contracted the disease from the late Liberian-American, Patrick Sawyer, had gathered to brief journalists at a press conference which held in Ikoyi, Lagos.
Boyo-Ekwueme, a pathologist, and one of the concerned relatives kept on laying emphasis on the fact that the female medical doctor must not be left to die.
Noting that the press conference was not called to trade blames with the Federal Government or the Lagos State Government, she painted a picture of utter neglect of the female doctor and her medical colleagues who have been placed in isolation at the IDH.
The pathologist who claimed to have been to the IDH in company with other family members and professional colleagues alleged that the Ebola patients were not being properly looked after.
Arguing that proper basic treatment and immune boosting drugs that can be of help to the patients were generally lacking, she concluded that only “international help” could make them live a little longer.
She lamented, “We are not fighting anybody. We are simply giving voice to the voiceless. Those people in isolation at the IDH cannot voice out these concerns. Let them have basic treatment. It shouldn’t be as if we just stood there and abandon them and watch them die one by one.
“They are human beings. That female doctor is a patriotic Nigerian and she needs to be helped. You people (journalists) should go there and see the surroundings where they are being treated. You would wonder if these are human beings who still have relatives.
“They are just being left on their own. Nobody is counselling them. They are just there as if they have been forgotten. We should remember that they didn’t ask to contract Ebola and it can happen to anybody. We are appealing for international help for these health workers.”
Spokesperson for the group of seven concerned family members and colleagues of the Ebola victims, Dr. Ladi Okuboyejo, buttressed Boyo-Ekwueme’s claims stating that people including medical personnel deployed were now running away from the ailing victims.
Explaining that the Ebola outbreak was beyond the capacity of the scary Nigerian physicians, Okuboyejo insisted that the conditions under which the Ebola victims were being looked after was appalling.
Okuboyejo, a medical practitioner, stated that there was a dearth of requisite drugs and basic medical supplies needed by the victims adding that the poor general sanitary condition of the isolation facility was despicable.
“If a health facility doesn’t have light, doesn’t have water and the sanitary system is not working properly then we have got a problem. Now the patients are critically ill and their condition is getting worse by day. People, including some medical personnel, are now running away from them.
“The reality is that the disease is beyond our capacity to handle in this country. The international community needs to rise up to our aid. The victims are not being properly treated. Forget that the Nigeria Medical Association is on strike, we cannot handle it,” he stated.
But as the concerned associates of the Ebola victims lamented the state of affairs with their loved ones at the press conference, a close family source confided in one of our correspondents that the American doctor had been the one personally footing the bill for the purchase of basic medical supplies for the victims.
The family source who preferred anonymity stated that a long list of medical and general need items presented to the authorities by the foreign physician had yet to be supplied.
“Where is the $12m the Federal Government said it released to fight Ebola. Remember that the matron and the ECOWAS protocol officer are already dead. Do they want all of them to start dying one after the other,” the source added.
As they took turns to address journalists, another immediate family member of one of the patients, Deji Akinyanju, drew the microphones to himself and began his own round of lamentation.
Akinyanju who declined to name her ailing relative, stated that the feedbacks he has got from the isolation centre showed that the Ebola victims’ health was fast deteriorating.
He alleged that the Nigerian physicians working with the American WHO expert were those with little or no experience in managing the highly contagious disease.
With a note of disappointment in his voice, Akinyanju, who said he had been visiting his critically ill relative at the IDH stated, that the WHO expert have also highlighted the need for more experienced hands to help salvage what remains of the health of the isolated health workers.
“There is a need for more medical personnel that will help look after them. Certain immune booster could also have been easily given to them. We are just concerned family members. But from what we have seen we think more can be done to help them,” Akinyanju said.
When contacted, the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris, was unavailable for comments.
His telephone line rang out when one of our correspondents  contacted him. Also, a text message sent to him, was not replied to as at press time on Thursday.
  





Discover How to run a Profitable Mini Importation Business with as Low N10,800 and Make 70,000 Naira per week Guaranteed! click Here


Make N250,000 Every Month from the Internet. No Experience Necessary. Click Here!


 Very Lucrative Internet & Telecom Biz, Laptops & Loans. Limited Slots Available. Click Now!!!   Earn N17,000 or N40,000 every 10 business days. CLICK HERE NOW. All payment made to your bank account. Call 09031737771. GUARANTEED!   Discover How You Can Start A Profitable Mini Importation Business 
With A Start-Up Capital as Low as 15k and Make 40k per week. Guaranteed!!!...Click Here   


  







FG proposes $78 oil benchmark for 2015 budget

20:45 /

			Comments			



Thugs attack Senator, others for campaigning in Akpabio’s community

20:30 /

			Comments			



NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment

20:20 /

			1 Comment			



Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande

20:05 /

			1 Comment			



More »




 
More Stories in News



						NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					





						Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					





						Ihedioha, aspirants flood PDP to pick nomination forms					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					











ILE IFE



The very least we can do for these citizens is to remind them by how we treat them…that we are in this together…






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Nigerians should show them compassion by making sure that: the deceitful men of God (such as Adeboye) come down to the isolation hospital and begin laying hands on Ebola patients, since those “men of God” have special connection to God.








OlufemiAdeniyi



I have said it here repeatedly Ebola is a disease of Poverty, poverty makes it spread. I sympathize with the infected female doctor and other infected health workers. Their families should be able to sue the management of the hospital or the government for not providing conducive environment, materials and for not providing basic protective materials for the health workers , and also for making health service surrounding a piggery like environment which promotes the spread of the disease. Truly Ebola is a disease of Poverty. I assume ebola was sent from above so that those that survive it can make and keep clean environment and stop eating diseased game animals. Every Nigerian matters ooo, May God save Nigeria from ENEMIES wITHIN






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



I still wonder what’s delaying the deceitful men of God (such as Adeboye) from having COMPASSION and laying hands on Ebola patients. Don’t they have special connection to God anymore?








malamdugu2000



Dear Pathologist, this is Nigeria, where sense of emotion and value for life have been lost due to selfishness, greed, tribalism and negligence of the government which have also been passed on to the citizenry. It is rather sad that this is happening but it has helped to reveal how ill-prepared we are for negative surprises like this. MAY GOD HELP US.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Where are the Nigerian men of God such as Adeboye? I heard that they are really ANOINTED and that they do miracles and wonder.








Allayes



This is surprising news. The impression we get is that both the Lagos State and Federal Governments are on top of the situation. The PUNCH should champion the cause of these unfortunate professionals and seek answers from our governments as to exactly what they are doing for these poor people. It is important because any Nigerian can be in that situation in the future if proper care is not taken now. Fashola himself declared that getting Ebola is not a death sentence; our governments should prove it.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Where are the deceitful men of God (such as Adeboye)? Surely by now they should be laying hands on Ebola patients and healing them.








abbey



I think this is national emergency which Federal government should be in coordinating  of the situation by now.  This  should not be left for state government to manage for there will be know proper coordination and cooperation between various state government. With the number of infected in Enugu and Lagos, the federal government should step in before this thing is out of control. Sitting on keg of gun powder. Hope I will not be crucified by Jonathan loyalist for mentioning federal government.






OlufemiAdeniyi



I think there is national coordination, that is why a patient and her husband were deported from Enugu to the “poultry” shed they built as isolation ward in Lagos for unfortunate ebola victims. Every Nigerian matters ooo, May God save Nigeria from ENEMIES wITHIN






jjjj



They declared Ebola is not a death sentence,they should prove it.Both FG and SG.








YET



With this kind of report, why wont victims run away. Other countries are taking care of their citizens..Our **rulers should not disappoint on this.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



You say: “Our **rulers should not disappoint on this.”
The deceitful men of God with all their ANOINTING are no-where to be found at this crucial hour. Shouldn’t these men of God (such as Adeboye) be laying hands on the Ebola patients and bring peace at this troubled hour?








Omo Naija, UK



I am not surprised. I knew that the said quarantine place would just be a dumping place where the infected persons would be just left to die or survive. If they do give them ordinary food, they shud thank their God. Nigeria is just a pathetic country. I know that through this Ebola issues, some people would enrich their pockets and most especially this useless posing minister of health






White Shadow



Good talk bro, a word of advise, if you live outside Nigeria please don`t bother to come back until this EVD is taken care of. If you do, there is no guarantee you will make it safely out of Nigeria. Imagine being quarantine in Nigeria…God forbid!






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



No wonder one of the nurses who was supposed to be on quarantine/surveillance fled to Enugu, and why won’t she when Nigerian men of God have taught her to say: “IT IS WELL. I don’t have Ebola in Jesus name”, which makes even medical personnel disregard quarantine/surveillance.






hoodie



Bro dont you get it there is no quarrantine. Its a morgue.please be honest with all you know of ebola will you work at IDH.






Omo Naija, UK



Thanks for the advice Bro.








eddy



Now I see why the other nurse ran to her home town in the east.








Mez Zaki



This is one worry I have had, the condition of the care the confirmed victims and the others in quarantine are getting. The other is the nature of our public transport system, especially the danfos and molues. This Ebola virus diseases is huge social and medical challenge!






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



With all the ANOINTED MEN OF GOD in Nigeria, is this all you have to say?








lakeside



Situation in nija just makes me sad. GOD help those people. Pray Zmap(drug) reaches them before its too late. Presidency full of talk without action. Failed president + clueless ministers= failed state. 






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



ZMapp is very limited in quantity.
Go get the men of God (such as Adeboye). By now those deceitful men of God should have shown mercy and start laying-hands on Ebola patients. Where are they?






DeboDrorgs



Your comment has been nothing but an attack on men of God. Your name suggests u’r a christian and I wonder if u do not believe God is capable of healing the sick, besides, no one has said anything about religion here so where’s ur hate coming from?






eddy



Perhaps you can lay ur hands as well… nothing in the bible year suggest that u cannot perform miracles too if u BELIEVE.
Pls the insults on the men of God. Let God be the judge.










Caesar



With the daily update by the health minister and constant painting of a beautiful picture of a recovering patients, i thought to myself, my fatherland is finally looking like a fatherland, how mistaken I was. When they said isolation center, i thought it will mean something like keeping them away from the rest of the people so proper care will be given to them but now we know they really mean Isolating them to die on their own. Nigeria we hail thee






taiwo



The only reasonable life insurance that can be offered to doctors to treat Ebola patient voluntarily is the original ZMAPP. If Ebola patients can be treated this way by our insensitive and dishonest government, how will doctors be encouraged to risk their lives to treat those infected. For your information ,Dr Kent brantly is getting better and would be discharged soon. What has our leaders got to say? 






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



You speak of: “The only reasonable life insurance … to treat Ebola … the original ZMapp”.
Wait a minute, how about the deceitful men of God in Nigeria (such as Adeboye)? Are they not known for performing miracles and wonders?








Kevin



This is all very confusing but typical of Nigeria. Drs Boyo-Ekwueme and Okuboyejo are saying Nigeria is not able to care for the ailing EVD patients and so “international” help is required. That is to say, our own doctors who on another day — absent EVD — are very proud to identify themselves as “doctor” are today conveniently insulated by their protracted strike action and prefer that “Indian” doctors and other foreigners come to the rescue rather than themselves. For how long will Nigeria not grow up? Where is the money announced by GEJ for mobilization of EVD response/management and treatments? Where is the Minister of Health and the State Commissioner for Heallth Lagos — both of whom are telling people the patients are “improving”? Under these circumstances is Nigeria not surely doomed? GEJ and his club are only concerned about politics of 2015 and beyond. They have no clue or interest in governance of Nigeria…






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



I don’t know why Nigerians are not calling for their deceitful men of God to have COMPASSION and begin laying hands on Ebola patients.








Eda



Through a single man a lot of families are in grief. What an unfortunate man.What a failed society! What an irresponsible government! Dear God pls perfect the healing of this people and make them whole again. 






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



By now deceitful men of God such as Adeboye should have had COMPASSION and start laying hands on Eblola patients.
I wonder what’s taking them so long to heal the people.








Sahara



I hope the so called rulers will know that an outbreak do not know anyone. They might deceive themselves into thinking they are immune.
A bus carrying an Ebola patient is a weapon of mass destruction.
We make contacts with at least 10 people in the average.
A molue bus of 50 people has a potential of reaching 500 people in one day and 5000 in 2 days and almost 50000 in few days.
It will affect everybody.
Oga and his children will have contact with oga driver and cleaners.
An outbreak will be disastrous.
A word is for the wise.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Nigeria has no problem because it has all the deceitful men of God who do great wonders and miracles.
I wonder why Adeboye and all the men of God in Nigeria have not began laying hands on Ebola patients.






Ayo Fasoro



Unfortunately, those leaders will never submit to go to the IDH. They will probably convert one of their mansions into a luxurious private hospital and fly in some of the best doctors in the world and eventually airlift them under special waivers to get foreign treatment.
Until the citizens revolt and chase these greedy leaders out of power and stop selling their votes for bags of rice, this will continue. For every bag of rice collected by a voter who voted wrongly, an X-Ray machine or an hospital bed is being stolen by the politician. And mind you, it is not the hard working entrepreneur or banker that is causing the problem, it is those holding political posts and their collaborators heading the civil service and parastatals that are wasting public resources that should be held accountable.
What is the way out? Can those expressing outrage on this blog page assure us that they will not do exactly the same thing if they were put in positions to oversee the public funds? Are we not merely making these comments because of the fear that we ourselves may not have resources to obtain proper treatment to survive, if we were infected? Are these not just emotional comments that could fade away the moment out uncle in Abuja invites us to “share out of the national cake? Let us think deeply.
If indeed we would behave differently from these greedy leaders and will be altruistic when entrusted with public responsibility, then we should form a movement similar to that which Gani Fawehinmi envisioned, register to vote, GO OUT TO VOTE, defend our vote, demand accountability and stop being timid. Whether we stand for a cause or not, we will die. Why not stand to a cause and edge your name in page of history?








francisn



And yet our country is said to be the richest in Africa! Which way Nigeria? Why do we let those that provided humanitarian services to the sick die from the same Ebola disease? Which way Nigeria. Sunny Okuson might have to sing this solo again! How do we walk to our true freedom if all that matters in our country is politics, politicians, their big talk and little action. We love our country but our leaders need us only during elections! Which way do we go?






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



You ask: Which way to go?
Nigerians should go and get their deceitful men of God such as Adeboye. Surely those deceitful men of God have special connection to God.








Jango-Jango



Minister of Heath should be sacked! Simple….






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Sack those Nigerian MEN OF GOD (e.g., Adeboye) for their lack of compassion and refusal to lay hands on Ebola patients.






Jon West



And then Ebola will disappear, right? Very clever indeed!!








Jujubeans



This is so very sad, has brought tears to my eyes. Just rounded up and left to die like that. What a country, what a people..I’m honestly starting to believe that we are a cursed nation whom God has abandoned, but we don’t know it.






Jujubeans



Well, European countries and the US had better prepare for the mass exodus of suspected Ebola patients.  Pay egunje at Lagos airport, land in London or NY at least even if they isolate you, you’ll get SOME form of treatment and won’t be left to die






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



You mean to tell me that those Nigerian men of God cannot help at this crucial hour? but i heard that they are really ANOINTED.








Konga



You have all spoken my mind. I have thought of this from the day that Liberian man died. My view is that they must have deliberately killed him…, and also that anybody that contract the virus will be cunningly silenced by the Government. Please lets pray for those that have contracted the disease. Until prominent and rich people start getting the virus, trust me, the government will not do anything. 
Lets face it, that $12m is more than enough to fly every single patients to a suitable and capable isolation units in Europe and America using Medical Emergency flights. That they will not do; rather they will steal all the money. 
If Jonathan or Fashola contract the virus will they sentence them to the same death waiting isolation point in Yaba? Think about it! Definitely they will be flown abroad. Stupid Government!






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Why fly abroad when Nigeria have deceitful men of God such as Adeboye who are well-known for their miracles.






Konga



Dont be shallow minded. There is miracle, and that’s only at God discretion. Men of God are only instruments. They don’t hold the final say when it comes to miracle.
And if you have your thinking cap on, you should know that Heaven only help those who help themselves. Once our government is ready to do the right thing, then and only then God will be more than willing to cure our land of all these menace. (ebola, B/H, PHCN epilesis etc)
So, don’t judge men of God. Seek more understanding if you don’t know.
I still maintain “all the confirmed cases” should be flown abroad for proper treatment. If they are just about 10 people, what the “F” does it cost our Government. I rest my case






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Here’s another unbiblical talk Adeboye gave at his Holy Ghost service in Dec. 2008:
“…
 When I pray for salvation here it will reach you at the various altars
where you may be … get up and go to the nearest altar close to you
…”
THAT’S FRAUDULENT. Salvation reaches a person as the person
trusts in the fact that God in His pity towards us took the eternal judgment for
us, not through Adeboye’s prayer or physical altar.










NewDawn



Eish, now this is bad for the larger public. With this kind of picture, I fear that very few people would voluntarily subject themselves to Ebola diagnosis. Seems a scary state of affairs!






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Why scary? when all the deceitful men of God in Nigeria are known for performing wonders and miracles.








Nija



They have cured the 2 doctors in Atlanta and one of the doctor was released today to go home. Whats going on with FG upon 1.9 billion GEJ approved for Ebola.lol






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Who cured those 2 doctors? It must be one of those Nigerian men of God such as Adeboye.








Defash



I am disappointed in this Minister painting beautiful pictures of isolation centres. Let everybody take to twitter, Facebook, WhatApp, etc with #OnyebuchiStopEbola
Punch should do more than just reporting but for once become a responsible media to champion this cause.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Why are Nigerians not calling their deceitful men of God to show COMPASSION at this crucial hour. Surely deceitful men of God such as Adeboye have special connection to God.
Everybody take to Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, etc with:
## PreacherStopEbola ##
Punch should do more than just reporting but for once become a responsible media to champion this cause BY CALLING ALL THE MEN OF GOD TO COME AND HEAL THE DYING AT THIS CRUCIAL HOUR.








JPrince



I feel very ashamed of this. I feel like crying. This is total shame!






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Where are your men of God (such as Adeboye)?








3!13



Are these two not doctors? They should also volunteer if they think the situation is deplorable






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



Where are the men of God such as Adeboye? What’s taking them so long? Surely by now they should be laying hands on Ebola patients and healing them.








kingthorin



saudi just donated millions so ur female
doc should be fine.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



How about Nigerian men of God (such as Adeboye)? Why can’t they lay hands on Ebola patients and heal them since they have special connection to God.








hoodie



It is a sad country truely pathetic. What do you expect from a country that lets its most vulnerable die under the bridge. What do you expect. The first set of HIV Patients were taken to IDH and left to die. IDH was the death hospital from colonial era and sadly the facilities availabla remain the same.
We are collectively a slow people. Were we living deluded when the virus was in Liberia. Why didnt we prepare for this. We are living in a mumucracy a govenment of mumus for mumus sadly I am a mumu.






http://www.gracetruth7.org/                GraceTruth7.org



You ask: “Were we living deluded when the virus was in Liberia.”
Let me tell you something: the DELUDED preachers of Nigeria have taught many in West Africa to say: “IT IS WELL. I don’t have Ebola in Jesus name”,
which makes even medical personnel disregard quarantine/surveillance.






hoodie



Bro all the white victims are missionaries and some of the dead liberians work in missionary hospital. By the way Pastor Adeboye told the west african delegates to stay back during their last convention. Our govrrnment did not show that concern for the rest of us. Please leave men of God alone.










hoodie



I pray the people quarentined survive this virus. They have no one except God. Yet we have akpabio awarding himself health insurance for lifefrom state cofers. Very sad really sad. We haveto rerealistically expect punishment worse than sodom and gomarrah. A white man will not treat his dog the way we treat this people. I am really upset.






posh mama



I hope these journalists. will make big headlines of these stories so the FG,  state government & those squandering the $12m can read.All these happening and all our inefficient government can think of is meeting groups to discuss 2015 re-election bid. Now I don’t blame medical personnel who refuse to work with Ebola victims.






Ayo Fasoro



Unfortunately, our leaders will never submit to go to the IDH, if they get infected. They will probably convert one of their mansions into a luxurious private hospital and fly in some of the best doctors in the world and eventually get airlifted under special waivers to get foreign treatment.
Until the citizens revolt and chase these greedy leaders out of power and stop selling their votes for bags of rice, this will continue. For every bag of rice collected by a voter who voted wrongly, an X-Ray machine or an hospital bed is being stolen by the politician. And mind you, it is not the hard working entrepreneur or banker that is causing the problem, it is those holding political posts and their collaborators heading the civil service and parastatals who are wasting public resources that should be held accountable.
What is the way out? Can those expressing outrage on this blog page assure us that they will not do exactly the same thing if they were put in positions to oversee the public funds? Are we not merely making these comments because of the fear that we ourselves may not have resources to obtain proper treatment to survive, if we were infected? Are these not just emotional comments that could fade away the moment out uncle in Abuja invites us to “share out of the national cake’? Let us think deeply.
If indeed we would behave differently from these greedy leaders and will be altruistic when entrusted with public responsibility, then we should form a movement similar to that which Gani Fawehinmi envisioned, register to vote, GO OUT TO VOTE, defend our vote, demand accountability and stop being timid. Whether we stand for a cause or not, we will die. Why not stand for a cause and edge your name on the page of history?












Recommended Stories



							Health and fitness news						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							JP Morgan Chase posts $5.6bn profit						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							The evolution of sleep: 700 million years of melatonin						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Electricity distribution firms owe govt agencies N14.16bn						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						1 Comment						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Recognise when your heart is most vulnerable						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Passengers decry location of Lagos airport’s car park						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						10 Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






Related Stories



							PDP welcomes Buhari to presidential race						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Aregbesola urges Nigerian leaders to restructure education 						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Ihedioha, aspirants flood PDP to pick nomination forms						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						1 Comment						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Eagles beat Sudan 3-1 in AFCON qualifier						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						












Most Read


Recent Comments


Most Commented








 
Disobey Fayemi’s curfew, Fayose tells Ekiti people





 
Afren sacks CEO, others over Nigerian oil scandal





 
Keshi says countries waiting to hire him





 
Chibok girls: Police stop protesters’ march to Villa 





 
Arsenal scout Emenike








 

wiseone  on Uduaghan denies sending name of successor to Jonathan




 

Shehu Monguno  on Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande




 

Olu Ade  on NIS tragedy: Victims protest against Jonathan’s broken promise




 

Tunsj  on 2015: Buhari visits Fashola, others ahead of declaration




 

Moses2Ola_74Fam  on Akinrinade commends Fayemi’s achievements









 
								Disobey Fayemi’s curfew, Fayose tells Ekiti people							




 
								Chibok girls: Police stop protesters’ march to Villa 							




 
								UPDATE: Buhari formally declares for presidency							




 
								Keshi says countries waiting to hire him							




 
								Obanikoro, Wike, Maku, others resign, target gov tickets							









12 convicted soldiers don’t deserve to die –Poll 
More stories
 
         

Columnists









    			Neither a ‘bird woman’ nor a witch    		




    		A few years ago, a video that has since gone viral showed a popular pastor allegedly slapping a female member…    	



Read More




 
      
Information Technology
CWG might become Nigeria’s Alibaba —NSEMore InfoTech stories
 
    





   


  
Categories

Select Category
2012 in view  (7)
A-Z of Careers  (2)
Abuja bomb blast  (11)
Accessory Addicts  (38)
Adam & Eve  (51)
AFCON 2013  (374)
Africa  (1,908)
Agric-Economy  (108)
Airtime  (1)
AM Business  (1,667)
America decides 2012  (37)
Appointments  (1,416)
Aprokokos  (14)
Aprokokos  (14)
Arts & Life  (949)
Arts Dome  (127)
Aso Rock Lens  (96)
Auto Famous  (57)
Auto News  (68)
Automedics  (169)
Aviation&travel  (40)
Banking matters  (58)
Beauty  (140)
Best of Metro  (1)
Brief  (66)
Bring back our girls  (54)
Business  (1,744)
Business & Economy  (4,113)
Business Etiquette  (48)
Business Interview  (6)
Buzz… social media diary  (42)
Campus Celebrity  (4)
Campus Champion  (11)
Capital Market  (2,910)
Career  (2)
Carnival  (1)
Celebrity Couple  (85)
CEO Platform  (62)
City Metro  (414)
close-up on ict  (175)
Community Service  (1)
Confab Gist  (17)
Confab Interview  (11)
Confab pictures  (13)
Confab Watch  (149)
Court Metro  (1,208)
court vibes  (447)
Crime Digest  (184)
Crime Metro  (251)
Crossfire  (183)
Culture  (40)
Diplomatic Post  (42)
Discourse  (1)
Discovery  (59)
Dreamweddings  (67)
E-Punch  (485)
Editorial  (880)
Education  (2,622)
Ekiti 2014  (11)
Eko 2012  (91)
Encounter  (89)
Energy  (1,571)
Entertainment  (86)
Entertainment  (23)
Essence  (189)
Etcetera Live  (22)
Ethnic Fashion  (30)
Etiquette  (41)
Everyday Life  (3)
Fagbenle on Sunday  (21)
Family Life  (1)
Famous Parents  (90)
Fashion Fix  (5)
Feature  (1,027)
Feedback  (1)
Financial Punch  (128)
Fitness  (24)
Food & Beverages  (103)
For men  (116)
For the Record  (11)
Foreign Feature  (31)
Foreign Health  (39)
Foreign Metro  (138)
Gadget Smart  (166)
Gadgets  (3)
Girls Club  (23)
Global Entertainment  (146)
Global Fashion  (83)
Global Finance  (75)
Global Trends  (11)
Health  (1,987)
Health Science  (418)
Healthwise  (1,953)
Healthy eating  (40)
Helpline  (1)
Highflyers  (64)
Home  (80)
Homes & Property  (1,834)
Hotseat  (35)
i-punch  (1,805)
ICT Clinic  (101)
In Vogue  (90)
Industry  (1,377)
Information Technology  (2,378)
Insurance  (1,110)
Interior Design  (48)
International Business  (6,506)
Interview  (112)
Intimacy  (52)
Investment Platform  (22)
Jebose Boulevard  (16)
King of Suspense  (28)
Kitchen  (19)
Knocks  (2)
Lagos Pulse  (125)
Leisure  (1)
Letters  (6,663)
Life & Beat  (257)
Life & Times  (137)
Lifestyle  (344)
Lifestyle  (77)
Lifestyle Diets  (31)
Lifeway Hints  (2)
Literary Punch  (368)
Local Entertainment  (110)
London 2012 Olympics  (94)
London Paralympic Games 2012  (39)
Love Series  (82)
Maritime  (76)
Medals  (140)
Memoirs  (5)
Men Style  (16)
Menswear  (41)
Mental Health Matters  (111)
Metro  (3,365)
Metro Plus  (1,211)
Midweek Revue  (836)
Mixed Grill  (127)
MobileMetro  (1)
Money  (3,343)
Money Matters  (6)
My Favourites  (34)
mynews.com  (269)
Nation’s Capital  (134)
National Conference 2014  (112)
New Year Special  (7)
News  (47,493)
News analysis  (4)
Nigeria @ 53  (12)
Nonagenarian  (3)
Octogenarian  (160)
Odd  (61)
Odd News  (10)
On the marble  (1)
Ondo decides 2012  (218)
Online Crew Diary  (34)
Opinion  (3,014)
Owambe  (55)
Parenting  (46)
Party  (1)
Penetrating Passes  (113)
People & Places  (73)
Personal Finance  (20)
Personalities  (93)
Pocket Lawyer  (142)
Political analysis  (16)
Politics  (2,456)
Power of Reason  (13)
Power Talkback  (260)
Professionals  (3)
Punch Revue  (19)
Punchwise  (146)
Relationship  (69)
Reporter’s Diary  (5)
Reporter’s diary  (4)
Rich and Famous  (52)
Safety  (8)
Saturday Beats  (666)
Saturday Breeze  (25)
Saturday crime  (36)
Saturday People  (72)
Saturday Vista  (3)
Scenes  (2)
Science World  (648)
Sex & Sexuality  (214)
Shopping  (1)
Sight-seeing  (12)
Sights & Signs  (45)
Society  (1,437)
Special Feature  (45)
Spice  (40)
Sportlight  (62)
Sports  (13,866)
Sports Buzz  (172)
Strange Circuit  (62)
Style  (57)
Style Buys  (2)
Style Insider  (2)
Sunday Chef  (66)
Sunday doctor  (82)
SundayCEO  (73)
Super Saturday  (164)
Super Saturday Crime  (10)
Super Saturday Lounge  (55)
Talk of the Town  (13)
Temp  (1)
The Fashionista  (80)
The Law & You  (309)
THE PUNCH: Best of 2012  (20)
The Pundit  (134)
The Tube  (58)
Tingles  (60)
Tit bits … Tit bits  (5)
Transport  (1,482)
Travel & tourism  (6)
Trends  (36)
Trivia Constitutional  (115)
Tunde Fagbenle ‘Saying it’ THE WAY IT IS  (99)
Urbane Man  (45)
US Presidential Election  (22)
Viewpoint  (309)
Vista  (26)
Voice Coach  (18)
Voices  (54)
Vox Pop  (8)
WEEKENDstarter  (290)
Weird & Awkward  (9)
Weird Planet  (60)
Wellness  (223)
Womenswear  (31)
World  (5,043)
World Cup  (347)
Year in review  (3)
You, Your Finance  (5)
Young Entrepreneur  (81)
Youngsters  (13)






 


     
 






 
 


  
Return to top of page . Switch to MobileCopyright © 2014 Punch Nigeria Limited · Terms of Service .  Advertise . Contact Us . Log in 


 













