Ebola cases estimated to hit 1.4 million by mid-January: dead corpses dumped in rivers  | The Extinction Protocol Ebola cases estimated to hit 1.4 million by mid-January: dead corpses dumped in rivers  | The Extinction Protocol 






The Extinction Protocol 


Geologic and Earthchange News events





Skip to content
HomeBooks of ScienceLoungeContactThe Extinction Protocol Radio







← Mortality rate climbing: Ebola virologist warns outbreak could lead to “the complete breakdown of society”
Ebola Wars: Liberia warns outbreak may force region back into civil war →


Ebola cases estimated to hit 1.4 million by mid-January: dead corpses dumped in rivers

Posted on September 24, 2014 by The Extinction Protocol  



September 2014 – AFRICA — New estimates by the World Health Organization and the U.S. health agency are warning that the number of Ebola cases could soar dramatically – the U.S. says up to 1.4 million by mid-January in two nations alone – unless efforts to curb the outbreak are significantly ramped up. Since the first cases were reported six months ago, the tally of cases in West Africa has reached an estimated 5,800 illnesses and over 2,800 deaths. But the U.N. health agency has warned that tallies of recorded cases and deaths are likely to be gross underestimates of the toll that the killer virus is wreaking on West Africa. The U.N. health agency said Tuesday that the true death toll for Liberia, the hardest-hit nation in the outbreak, may never be known, since many bodies of Ebola victims in a crowded slum in the capital, Monrovia, have simply been thrown into nearby rivers. In its new analysis, WHO said Ebola cases are rising exponentially and warned the disease could sicken people for years to come without better control measures. The WHO’s calculations are based on reported cases only. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, however, released its own predictions Tuesday for the epidemic’s toll, based partly on the assumption that Ebola cases are being underreported. The report says there could be up to 21,000 reported and unreported cases in Liberia and Sierra Leone alone by the end of this month and that cases could balloon to as many as 1.4 million by mid-January.
Experts caution those predictions don’t take into account response efforts. The CDC’s numbers seem “somewhat pessimistic” and do not account for infection control efforts already underway, said Dr. Richard Wenzel, a Virginia Commonwealth University scientist who formerly led the International Society for Infectious Diseases. In recent weeks, health officials worldwide have stepped up efforts to provide aid, but the virus is still spreading. There aren’t enough hospital beds, health workers or even soap and water in the hardest-hit West African countries: Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Last week, the U.S. announced it would build more than a dozen medical centers in Liberia and send 3,000 troops to help. Britain and France have also pledged to build treatment centers in Sierra Leone and Guinea and the World Bank and UNICEF have sent more than $1 million worth of supplies to the region. “We’re beginning to see some signs in the response that gives us hope this increase in cases won’t happen,” said Christopher Dye, WHO’s director of strategy and co-author of the study published by the New England Journal of Medicine, who acknowledged the predictions come with a lot of uncertainties. “This is a bit like weather forecasting. We can do it a few days in advance, but looking a few weeks or months ahead is very difficult.” WHO also calculated the death rate to be about 70 percent among hospitalized patients but noted many Ebola cases were only identified after they died. Dye said there was no proof Ebola was more infectious or deadly than in previous outbreaks. The WHO also reports that new figures suggest that 70% of those infected with Ebola in West Africa have passed away from it, higher than previously reported.
Outside experts questioned WHO’s projections and said Ebola’s spread would ultimately be slowed not only by containment measures but by changes in people’s behavior. “It’s a big assumption that nothing will change in the current outbreak response,” said Dr. Armand Sprecher, an infectious diseases specialist at Doctors Without Borders. “Ebola outbreaks usually end when people stop touching the sick,” he said. “The outbreak is not going to end tomorrow but there are things we can do to reduce the case count.” Local health officials have launched campaigns to educate people about the symptoms of Ebola and not to touch the sick or the dead. Sprecher was also unconvinced that Ebola could continue causing cases for years. He said diseases that persist for years usually undergo significant changes to become less deadly or transmissible. Dye and colleagues wrote they expected the numbers of cases and deaths from Ebola to continue rising from hundreds to thousands of cases per week in the coming months – and reach 21,000 by early November. He said it was worrisome that new cases were popping up in areas that hadn’t previously reported Ebola, like in parts of Guinea. Scientists said the response to Ebola in the next few months would be crucial. –WJLA



About these ads




ShareEmailShare on Tumblr

Related
 

												This entry was posted in Black Swan Event, Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Disease outbreak, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Ecology overturn, Environmental Threat, Extinction Threat, High-risk potential hazard zone, Human behavioral change after disaster, Infrastructure collapse, New virus reported, Pestilence Watch, Potential Earthchange hotspot, Prophecies referenced, Quarantine, Social unrest, Time - Event Acceleration, Volcanic gas emissions. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Mortality rate climbing: Ebola virologist warns outbreak could lead to “the complete breakdown of society”
Ebola Wars: Liberia warns outbreak may force region back into civil war →


18 Responses to Ebola cases estimated to hit 1.4 million by mid-January: dead corpses dumped in rivers




 visionary22 says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 12:57 am 
If they are throwing the bodies into the rivers…isn’t that spreading it more, through the water supply?
LikeLike


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 1:20 am 
Contaminating the water supply.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Ted says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 2:03 pm 
It could potentially contaminate the water suppy.
But the rivers probably dump into the ocean.
In addition, as in many African countries there  may be crocodiles.
Throwing bodies into rivers is an act of desperation.
Africa is in serious trouble.
LikeLike








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 2:39 pm 
No doubt, Ted. We live in very troubling times.
LikeLike












 Puckles says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 2:40 am 
This is just beyond sad.
LikeLike


Reply 





 George says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 8:02 am 
Now the rivers! Ebola will arrive world wide one way or the other.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Dennis E. says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 11:15 am 
How about that……..it seems attempts by the international community is wasted if some order is not established.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Bill Moylan says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 4:48 pm 
The people in white protective clothing are the bravest on the planet. My Heart goes out to them!
LikeLike


Reply 





 Amy Eyrie says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 5:02 pm 
If the West doesn’t do something, the virus will mutate, a potential nightmare.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Debbie says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 6:32 pm 
1.4 million is a number just unthinkable! My prayers for all those who suffer from this. Hard to comprehend right now. Thank -you Alvin! I looked on Aol News today nothing about this only Isis reported, these are truely sad times.
LikeLike


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 6:55 pm 
Thanks, Debbie. Trying to give you guys all the latest news on the outbreak. 
If you’re on the go, you can follow updates on TEP Twitter: https://twitter.com/Extinctionp
LikeLike


Reply 





 Anne says: 

				September 24, 2014 at 7:58 pm 
Nov. 2009 in Ukraine Report: 11/06:  “Mysterious Plague Virus cases have doubled overnight!  The official “mysterious Plague virus is now at 871,037!  This is up from just under a half million yesterday!”
11/07 reports:  Interapol had a Training Drill on the “Black Death/Plague, it being Bioterrorism in Sept. 2009, which took place in Poland.  (Baxter International made the Swine Flu Vaccine).   
11/09 Doctor reports:  “Over 1 million sick…Death is in 4 to 7 days. It invades the lungs. High threshold of morbidity among workers of medical fields.  4 doctors and 2 junior personnel died as a result of their professional duties. The hemorrhagic pneumonia killing those in Ukraine – IS NOT H1N1 (lungs bleeding).  It is the SWINE FLU VACCINE!!!”
Report: The Government in Ukraine is now rounding up anyone who speaks out against swine flu disinformation hype, or alarmism or AGAINST MANDATORY VACCINATIONS.” 
Report:  11/10 Minister of Health has taken unusual  step, “They Sprayed the City, he explained, “with necessary products!”
Report:  A doctor in Western Ukraine was quoted as saying:  ‘WE HAVE CARRIED OUT POST MORTEMS ON 2 VICTIMS AND FOUND THEIR LUNGS ARE A BLACK AS CHARCOAL.  THEY LOOK LIKE THEY HAVE BEEN BURNED.  IT’S TERRIFYING.”
Croation priest appeals to everyone not to take the Swine Flu Shot – microchips are in the vaccine and your health will be controlled.
Report:  In Ukarine, a cocktail of 3 flu viruses seem to have mutated into a single pneumonic plague, similar to the Black Death and evola…hemorrghagic pneumonia.
LikeLike


Reply 





 niebo says: 

				September 26, 2014 at 12:36 am 
Here’s a link with more on this story that I (and I’m guessing most of us) have never heard of:
http://www.businessinsider.com/ukraine-black-lung-plague-kills-12-in-one-day-2009-11
LikeLike








 Anne says: 

				September 26, 2014 at 2:28 pm 
Dear niebo, I got my information as it unfolded from “Sherrie Questioning ALL”.
LikeLike








 Yellow Bird says: 

				September 26, 2014 at 5:05 pm 
thanx for the link niebo… you’re right, its the first ive heard of this.  tried to hunt info yesterday and had difficulty finding anything much. very quiet
LikeLike








 Yellow Bird says: 

				September 26, 2014 at 5:47 pm 
doing some more digging, i came up with this report from Apr2013 of similar occurrences in Germany:
http://investmentwatchblog.com/new-flu-that-causes-hemorrhagic-fever-and-organ-failure-now-in-germany-undiagnosed-illness-respiratory-fatal-biohazard-level-44-hazardous/
hard to locate more info, again very quiet.
i did find this suggested explanation as to the dynamic (what occurs), tho triggering factors still seem mysterious (why it only sometimes occurs):
posted from Patricia Doyle, PhD
http://www.flu.org.cn
“It is not my intent to scare people about a possible coming outbreak. I simply look at all of the data on the subject and make personal judgement on what may or may not occur in the future should the virus become pandemic. It is my belief that people should have as much informaiton as possible which would enable them to plan ahead. I think that there would be much more “fear” if people woke up and found themselves in the middle of an outbreak. If people have advance warning they will be better prepared to act. People who are aware of possibilities can spend time researching the data and arriving at their own conclusions.
 “Just as the cytokine reaction in SARS did cause hemorrhagic symptoms in some cases, virulent pandemic strains of influenza, like the Spanish Flu also cause the inflamatory cytokines in the lungs and the hemorrhagic pneumonia.
 “These viruses were also more pathogenic, not simply because they were associated with increased levels of in vivo replication but also because they stimulated massive increases in the responses of inflammatory cytokines in the lungs of infected mice. The mice infected with HAsp-containing virus had increased recruitment of leukocytes to the sites of lung infection and had severe hemorrhage resembling the hemorrhagic pneumonia associated with human infections during the 1918?C1919 pandemic. ”
full article can be read at http://www.rense.com/general63/ebola.htm
LikeLike












 Dennis E. says: 

				September 25, 2014 at 1:23 pm 
(Depopulation) Legalized murder
LikeLike


Reply 





 jeff says: 

				October 1, 2014 at 9:09 am 
This same area of Africa is sought by ISIS and shown on their map. The WMD that were “lost” during the gulf war ended up in Syria and Libya. There is a U- variant Ebola virus that has been manufactured as a biological agent that is in the arsenal of many countries. It is an airborne dispersed agent that is a powder.
Is this how it is spreading. ISIS?
LikeLike


Reply 




All comments are moderated. We reserve the right not to post any comment deemed defamatory, inappropriate, or spam. Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list


Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola


Health officials warn new Ebola cases could soon reach 10,000 a week


Ebola death toll rises to 4,447 – mortality rate for virus peaks at 70%


7.3 magnitude earthquake strikes off coast of El Salvador killing 1


Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
* Publisher Coupon Discount

1 Submit story

11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Animal Extinction

Apostasy

Avalanche

Black hole or supernova

Black Swan Event

Blizzard

Breaking News Event

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Cosmic and Gamma Ray emissions

Cracks

Crowd Control technology

Cryometeor

Cyber Warfare

Cyclone or Hurricane

Dark Ages

Deluge from torrential rains

Derecho storm

Derecho storm system

Desertification

Disappearing Lakes

Disease outbreak

Dormant fault activation

Dream Portal TEP

Drought

Drumbeat of War

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earth's core dynamics

Earthquake Omens?

Eclipse

Ecology overturn

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Ecoystem crisis due to population boom

Editor's note to readers – policy

Electric power disruption & grid failure

Electronic Surveillence

Emerging disease threat

Environmental Threat

Erratic Jet Stream

Ethnic or religious strife

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extinction Threat

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Financial System Collapse

Fireballs

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Flooding

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Fracking quake suspected

Frost Quakes

Fungus outbreak

Future coding

Futuristic tech trends

Gale-force winds and gusts

Geomagnetic Storm Alert

Geyser eruption

Glacial fracture

Global Debt Bomb

Hailstorm

Harmonic tremor swarm

Hazardous chemical exposure

Health guideliness issued

Heatwave

High-risk potential hazard zone

Hum noise

Human behavioral change after disaster

Ice Storm

Infrastructure collapse

Invasive species threat

Land fissures

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lava flow

Lightning storm

Limnic overturn

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Lurid acts of violence increasing

Magma Plume activity

Magnetic pole migration

Marine animal strandings

Mass animal deaths

Meteor or Asteroid

Monthly lead post

Mud volcano

Mystery Boom & Shaking

Natural gas explosion

New land rises from sea

New virus reported

New volcanic activity

New weapons of war

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Nuclear plant crisis

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary discovery

Planetary Tremor Event

Polar Vortex

Poleshift risks

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Quarantine

Rare snowfall

Reality Check

Record Cold temperatures

Record high temperatures

Record rainfall

Record snowfall

Red Tide

Resource war

Rising tension between nations

Rumors of War

Scientific blunders

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

sinkholes

Social unrest

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Strange unexplained noises

Subglacial flood event

Submarine volcanic eruption

Submarine Volcano

Supermoon

Tectonic plate movement

Time – Event Acceleration

Tornado Outbreak

Unknown phenomena in the sky

Unprecedented Flooding

Unseasonable Weather Event

Unsolved Mystery

Unusual hail storm

Unusual solar behavior

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Ash

Volcanic Eruption

Volcanic gas emissions

Volcano unrest

Volcano Watch

Water Crisis – Conflict

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,363 other followers







 



EP: Live Twitter Feed

				Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list  wp.me/p1eYXc-amj -The Extinction Protocol...				4 hours ago


				M5.1  - 124km NNE of Vik, Iceland 2014-10-15 11:16:33 UTC (via @usgs)  earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/ev… -The Extinction Protocol...				8 hours ago


				Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola  wp.me/p1eYXc-amb -The Extinction Protocol...				9 hours ago

Books by the Author

Books by the Author


News website

Utopia the collapse


Youtube Channel

The Extinction Protocol Radio






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?





 








 




 




					The Extinction Protocol 				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Blog at WordPress.com.
			






































Follow

Follow “The Extinction Protocol ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 11,363 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com







Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







 



