Docs Declare Ebola Patients Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol No Risk to Public - NBC NewsDocs Declare Ebola Patients Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol No Risk to Public - NBC News









menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
How Fast Will Ebola Spread?
How Fast Will Ebola Spread?
Texas Hospital Tough to Sue Over Ebola Care, Say Experts
Spacewalkers Get Space Station Back to Full Power







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Live Hong Kong Protests 







Courtesy of Samaritan's Purse / EPA file

                            55 days
                            



Ebola Virus Outbreak
164 of 562  
A handout photo provided by Samaritan's Purse shows Dr. Kent Brantly working at an Ebola treatment clinic in Foya, Liberia, June 23. Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who are now suffering from Ebola in Liberia, are being evacuated to the United States for treatment.
 


Docs Declare Ebola Patients Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol No Risk to Public



















By Maggie Fox


















Declaring his cure a miracle, a doctor infected with the Ebola virus while working to save patients in West Africa walked out of an Atlanta hospital on Thursday. Hospital officials said they released a colleague quietly on Tuesday at her request."Today is a miraculous day. I am thrilled to be alive, to be well and to be reunited with my family," Dr. Kent Brantly, 33, of Christian aid organization Samaritan’s Purse, told a news conference.Nancy Writebol, 59, an aid worker who also contracted Ebola while doing missionary aid work in Liberia, was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday, according to Emory and the aid group SIM. She is spending private time with her husband. "As she walked out of her isolation room, all she could say was 'To God be the glory,'" Brantly said.Brantly, who clutched the hand of his wife, Amber, before speaking, said he would be spending a month in private with his family before sharing any more of his story. "But for now we need some time together after a month apart," he said."Please do not stop praying for the people of Liberia and West Africa and for an end to this Ebola epidemic," Brantly pleaded in a brief statement. He hugged his doctors and nurses as he left, and officials at Emory and the CDC emphasized that the patients pose no risk to public health.
















“After a rigorous course of treatment and testing, the Emory Healthcare team has determined that both patients have recovered from the Ebola virus and can return to their families and community without concern for spreading this infection to others,” Dr. Bruce Ribner, director of Emory’s Infectious Disease Unit, said at the news conference."We understand that there are a lot of questions and concerns about the Ebola virus and the infection that is causes. However we cannot let our fears dictate our actions," Ribner added. "We don't think he's contagious."Franklin Graham, president of Samaritan's Purse, said Thursday that he had "marveled at Dr. Brantly's courageous spirit as he has fought this horrible virus" and thanked staff at the hospital. On Friday, Brantly released a statement asking that people "continue to pray for and bring attention to those suffering in the ongoing Ebola crisis in West Africa." More than 1,300 people have died from the disease in the region, according to the World Health Organization, which has declared the Ebola epidemic a global health emergency.Both Americans received experimental treatment before being flown to an isolation unit in Emory University Hospital in Atlanta in early August. Ribner says there is no way to tell if it helped. "They are the very first individuals to ever receive this agent ... and frankly, we do not no whether it helped them, whether it made no difference or whether it delayed their recovery," he said.Ribner said doctors would follow up on both Writebol and Brantly to make sure they continue to recover, and to watch for any side-effects from the treatment. They will almost certainly be immune to this particular strain of Ebola but it's not clear what immunity they may have to other, related strains of the virus.
















In fact, both could return to Africa if their recovery continued. "We would anticipate immunity to this virus so that they would probably not be at risk of infection if they were caring for patients with Ebola virus disease during this outbreak," Ribner said.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says there is no concern for anyone with the release of the two patients. "They no longer have Ebola virus in their blood and therefore pose no risk to household contacts or the public. There are no restrictions to the patients' activities of daily living," CDC said in a statement.Ribner said the hospital allowed Writebol to leave quietly and privately at her request. There was no need to tell the public because she poses no threat, he said."Nancy is free of the virus, but the lingering effects of the battle have left her in a significantly weakened condition," her husband David Writebol said in a statement. "Thus, we decided it would be best to leave the hospital privately to be able to give her the rest and recuperation she needs at this time."F. Brinley Bruton and Lexi Rudolph contributed to this story
First published August 21 2014, 2:10 AM



 

 

 

 




Maggie Fox


 

 

 


                                            Maggie Fox is senior health writer for NBCNews.com and TODAY.com, writing top news on health policy, medical treatments and disease. She's a former managing editor for healthcare and technology at National Journal and global health and science editor for Reuters based in Washington, D.C. and London.She's reported for news agencies, radio, newspapers, magazines and television from across Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Europe covering news ranging from war to politics and, of course, health and science. Her reporting has taken Maggie to Lebanon, Syria and Libya; to China, South Korea, Thailand, the Philippines and Pakistan; to Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia and to Ireland and Northern Ireland and across the rest of Europe.Maggie has won awards from the Society of Business Editors and Writers, the National Immunization Program, the Overseas Press Club and other organizations. She's done fellowships at Harvard Medical School, the National Institutes of Health and the University of Maryland.

... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 
