
    Late Dr Adadevoh’s Sister Tests Positive To Ebola Virus Disease | 
 Frontiers News 
    Late Dr Adadevoh’s Sister Tests Positive To Ebola Virus Disease | 
 Frontiers News 






Edition: International |  About Us
Advert Rates
Contact Us



Wednesday 15 October, 2014








Breaking News >



Contents, ContentsXtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Ta...










Trending Topics:
Buhari
 - Ukraine
 - MH17
 - Boko Haram
 - Nigeria
 - Ebola












Xtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Taken Over Of Mission Schools Ebola: Second Texas Health Worker Tests Positive Nollywood Actress Mercy Johnson Delivers Second Baby In US Court Discharges Ajudua Of $1.9m Fraud Charge Military Charges 59 Soldiers With Mutiny, Insubordination 








            




News
Politics
Business
Exclusive
Special Reports
Foreign News
Sports
Gallery
Arts and Entertainment


Home
Press Releases
Opinion
Editorial
Features
Frontiers TV
Corruption in Education
iReport







 

 


 

Published On: Mon, Aug 25th, 2014 
Contents / Contents | By   



  Late Dr Adadevoh’s Sister Tests Positive To Ebola Virus Disease

Share This

 





 

 




 


 




 
Tags


 Dr. Ameyo Adadevoh
…Lagos State Govt Raises Alarm Over Shortage Of Volunteers To Care For Ebola Victims
Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh’s sister whose test was conducted last week has tested positive to the Ebola virus. The sister was one of the people to have had contact with Dr Ameyo before she was killed by the virus.
Late Dr Ameyo was the senior doctor who treated the Liberian/American, Patrick Sawyer who imported EVD to Nigeria before he died on July 25.
Dr Adadevoh also later died of EVD having contacted the disease from treating Sawyer.
Her sister is reported presently under quarantine at Lagos State University Teaching Hospital.
The latest development came as Lagos State is facing the problem of shortage of volunteers to help care for the victims of the deadly Ebola Virus Disease (EVD).
In spite of a life insurance scheme and N60, 000 daily allowance being offered by the state government, health workers and volunteers are still not forthcoming.
Lagos State Commissioner for Health Dr. Jide Idris, said they were striving to save the lives of confirmed Ebola cases but “our major challenge in this regard is personnel with requisite expertise, hence, our call for volunteers”.






About the Author


 - 



Related News















Xtian Faithfuls Protest In Ilorin Over Alleged Taken Over Of Mission Schools





Court Discharges Ajudua Of $1.9m Fraud Charge





Military Charges 59 Soldiers With Mutiny, Insubordination





Synagogue Tragedy: Ondo Students Urges T. B. Joshua To Take Solace In God






 


Leave a comment
 
Click here to cancel reply.  
You must be Logged in to post comment.


 
 







 Tweet

 
 
 Pin It

  









 

 
 
  





     

Media Partners      –>
Prompt News  |
African Examiner  |
Huhu Online  |
Pointblank News  |
Eagle Online  |
The Will Nigeria  |
Watchdog Reporters  |
Per Second News  |
 
   
 



    All Rights Reserved 2014 Frontier News 
         

  














