 | Ebola: Family of dead Nigerian nurse on the run | Ebola: Family of dead Nigerian nurse on the run



x


Search for:



 





October 15, 2014
Home
Ebola
World News
US News
Business
NASA News
Politics
Health
 

Twitter
Google+
E-mail













Main menu
Skip to content
Contact
About Us








Posted on August 9, 2014  by  Dan Mullin 
Ebola: Family of dead Nigerian nurse on the run


The husband and children of the Nigerian  nurse who died after getting infected with the Ebola virus are on the run, the health officials in the country have said.
Nigeria is the fourth West African country to be hit by the Ebola outbreak since it first emerged in March in Guinea.  The virus entered the country when Patrick Sawyer, who was suffering from the disease arrived by plane late last month in Lagos.
Sawyer, who worked for the Liberian government in Monrovia and had a wife and three young daughters in Minnesota, was on a business flight to Nigeria when he fell ill.
The nurse, the only Nigerian fatality from the disease which has killed over 900 people in four West African countries, was exposed to the virus at a health facility Sawyer was taken before his death.
The nurse’s family were not the first to flee from quarantine. In Sierra Leone, health ministry data and officials report dozens of people confirmed by laboratory tests to have Ebola are now unaccounted for.
Industry watchers say the government needs to try to increase public awareness and educate the public.
Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO)  is meeting with Nigerian Ebola Research Team on control and remedy of the disease.
A six-man research committee was inaugurated by the Federal Government on August 4, 2014 with a mandate to carry out research on the deadly contagious virus.




 

Ebola 


Tagged abola, abola disease, ebola america, ebola cure, Ebola Dallas, Ebola Family, ebola news, Ebola Outbreak, ebola sick, ebola symptoms, ebola texas, ebola vaccine, Ebola Virus, Guinea, Nigerian Ebola Research Team, Patrick Sawyer, West African, what is ebola? 


Post navigation
← Previous Next →

 




More News

Hollywood Gossip
NBA Updates
The Urban TMZ


Updates On EbolaAn Essay For Action Against Ebola
2nd HCW Test Positive for Ebola in Dallas
Ebola survivor infects wife to death
Head of World Bank Makes Ebola His Mission
Contact
About Us
 




 
 






			©                          Amazon.com Widgets








