 Media Rise Festival 2014: Signature Events Tickets, Washington - Eventbrite  Media Rise Festival 2014: Signature Events Tickets, Washington - Eventbrite 
Invalid quantity.  Please enter a quantity of 1 or more.
The quantity you chose exceeds the quantity available.
Please enter your name.
Please enter an email address.
Please enter a valid email address.
Please enter your message or comments.
Please enter the code as shown on the image.
Please select the date you would like to attend.
Please enter an email address.
Please enter a valid email address in the To: field.
Please enter a subject for your message.
Please enter a message.
You can only send this invitations to 10 email addresses at a time.
$$$$ is not a properly formatted color.  Please use the format #RRGGBB for all colors.
Please limit your message to $$$$ characters. There are currently ££££.
$$$$ is not a valid email address.
Please enter a promotional code.
N/A
Sold Out

	Unavailable
	

You have exceeded the time limit and your reservation has been released.
	The purpose of this time limit is to ensure that registration is available to as many people as possible.  We apologize for the inconvenience.
This option is not available anymore. Please choose a different option.
Please read and accept the waiver.
All fields marked with * are required.
Please double check your email address.  The email address format does not appear valid.
$$$$ requires a number between ££££ and §§§§
US Zipcodes need to be 5 digits.
Please double check your website URL.
All fields marked with * are required.
Your credit card expiration date is in the past.
Your credit card CSC needs to be 4 digits.
Please confirm your order:$$$$You have selected to Pay by Check.Click OK to confirm your order.
Please confirm your order:$$$$You have selected to Pay at the Door.Click OK to confirm your order.
Please confirm your order: $$$$You have selected to Pay upon Receiving an Invoice.Click OK to confirm your order.
Your credit card CSC needs to be 3 digits.
SOFORT Überweisung is only available in Germany and Austria.
Your billing zip code needs to be 5 digits.
There was a problem saving your address.
There was a problem saving your credit card info.
There was a problem saving your personal information.
Please select the date you would like to attend.
McAfee Secure sites help keep you safe from identity theft, credit card fraud, spyware, spam, viruses and online scams.
Copying Prohibited by Law - McAfee Secure is a Trademark of McAfee, Inc.
Unknown card type.
No card number provided.
Credit card number is in invalid format.
Wrong card type or credit card number is invalid.
Credit card number has an inappropriate number of digits.
Please enter numbers here.
Please enter an integer value.
Numbers must be less or equal to $$$$
All the required fields have not been filled out.  Click OK to proceed without all the required information, or click Cancel to finish entering the missing data.
Please enter a donation amount.
Please select an attendee for donation.
There is currently an issue with credit card submission on Safari with iOS7.  Please try again with a different browser or device.
Sorry, invalid event registration form.
Sorry, invalid event or database error.
Sorry, quantity must be a positive integer.
Sorry, you did not select a valid ticket.
Sorry, invalid event organizer email address.
Your order was canceled.
Thank You. Your order has been successfully completed. Your name and email address have been added to the list of event attendees.
Sorry, that option is sold out.
Sorry, that option is no longer available.
Sorry, there are only  tickets of that type still available.
Sorry, you entered an invalid quantity. Please enter a quantity of 1 or more next to the type or types of tickets you would like to purchase.
Sorry, you did not select any tickets to purchase. Please enter a quantity of 1 or more next to the type or types of tickets you would like to purchase.

	Sorry, there are no tickets left for this event.
The tickets, ticket quantity or date and time you've requested are no longer available, due to previous sales. Please choose a different date, time or number of tickets and place your order again.
Sorry, one or more of the tickets you requested are no longer available for purchase.
Sorry, you need to select the date you want to attend.
Sorry, the promotional code you entered is not valid yet.
Sorry, the promotional code you entered has expired.
Sorry, the promotional code you entered is not valid.
Your session has expired.  Try ordering again.
Sorry, your requested ticket quantity exceeds the number provided by your promotional code.
Sorry, you need to enable javascript to place an order.How do I enable JavaScript on my computer?
The tickets you are trying to order are currently not available. Please refresh your browser to see if tickets become available.
Sorry, the payment type chosen is invalid for this event.

	Sorry, there is only 1 ticket left for this event.

	Sorry, there are only  tickets left for this event.


We're sorry, this invitation is invalid.
We're sorry, this invitation has already been used.
We're sorry, you already have an order being processed for this event. Please wait a few minutes and try again.
We're sorry, there is a problem with your invitation. Please try again.
Invalid quantity of tickets selected.
Invalid donation amount.
Sorry, the promotional code you entered has been claimed.
The payment was cancelled.
The payment was declined by the bank.
The payment failed.
The payment expired.
Bummer! This team is full. Please join a different team.
Sorry, the tickets you've selected are no longer available.
An error was encountered processing your order. Please be aware that you may only be completing one order at a time (including transfers).
Based on the quantity selected we are unable to seat your group together. Please try a smaller quantity.
Sorry, the payment type chosen is invalid for this event.
Sorry, your billing address was not saved properly, please try again.
Sorry, we experienced an internal error, please try again.
The captcha you entered is invalid. Please try again.
Invalid credit card selected. You have been logged out.
Sorry, your team selection was not valid.
Sorry, the payment type chosen is invalid for this event.
Sorry, your billing address was not saved properly, please try again.
Sorry, we experienced an internal error, please try again.
Please double check your email address.  The email address format does not appear valid.
State
Zip Code
Province
Postal Code
County
State/Territory
State/Province








Eventbrite






















                                    Near 









Discover



Sign up
Log in

Help 


How it works
What it costs to create events
Where to find your tickets
How to contact the event organizer
Help Center 



Create Event







Help
Sign up
Log in
Create Event 












        This event has ended
    














Media Rise Festival 2014: Signature Events


                                    Media Rise
                                

Friday, September 26, 2014 at 6:30 PM - Sunday, September 28, 2014 at 8:00 PM (EDT)

Washington, DC



































Ticket Information






                    Ticket Type
                
Sales End

                    Price
                
Fee
Quantity



                    All-Access Pass (Regular)

                      more info
Access to all weekend Signature Events: Pitch Night, Party, Forum, Early Rise Brunch, Youth Media Rise, 48-Hour Video Challenge Screening. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $125.00

                

        
                    $4.12

                







                    All-Access Pass (Student)

                      more info
Access to all weekend Signature Events: Pitch Night, Party, Forum, Early Rise Brunch, Youth Media Rise, 48-Hour Video Challenge Screening. Must show Student ID at check-in. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $70.00

                

        
                    $2.74

                







                    FRIDAY :: Pitch Night

                      more info
Date/time: Friday, September 26, 7:30pm-9pm (doors open 6:30pm). Location: The Wonder Bread Factory, 641 S St NW (1st floor), Washington, DC 20001. Ages 21 and up. Cash bar + light fare provided. Tickets available at the door. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $20.00

                

        
                    $1.49

                







                    FRIDAY :: Party!

                      more info
Date/time: Friday, September 26, 9pm - 2am. The Wonder Bread Factory (1st floor), Wiltberger St NW, Washington, DC 20001. Ages 21 and up. Music + cash bar + light fare provided. FREE to attend.


                    Ended
                


        
                    $0.00

                

        
                    $0.00

                







                    SATURDAY :: Forum (Regular)

                      more info
Date/time: Saturday, September 27. 9am-5:30pm. Location: Impact Hub DC, 419 7th St NW, Washington, DC, 20004. Breakfast + coffee + lunch provided. Note: All Forum guests receive complimentary entry to Early Rise Brunch on Sunday, September 28, 9:30am-12pm at the Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009.


                    Ended
                


        
                    $100.00

                

        
                    $3.49

                







                    SATURDAY :: Forum (Student)

                      more info
Date/time: Saturday, September 27. 9am-5:30pm. Location: Impact Hub DC, 419 7th St NW, Washington, DC, 20004. Breakfast + coffee + lunch provided. Note: All Forum guests receive complimentary entry to Early Rise Brunch on Sunday, September 28, 9:30am-12pm at the Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009. Must show Student ID at check-in. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $50.00

                

        
                    $2.24

                







                    SUNDAY :: Early Rise Brunch

                      more info
Date/time: Sunday, September 28, 9:30am-12pm. Location: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009. Note: All Forum guests receive complimentary entry to Early Rise Brunch. Brunch + coffee provided. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $15.00

                

        
                    $1.37

                







                    SUNDAY :: Youth Media Rise (Adult)

                      more info
Date/time: Sunday, September 28. 2pm-6pm. Location: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009. Drinks + snacks provided. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $35.00

                

        
                    $1.87

                







                    SUNDAY :: Youth Media Rise (Teen)

                      more info
Date/time: Sunday, September 28. 2pm-6pm. Location: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009. Drinks + snacks provided. Ages 13-18. 


                    Ended
                


        
                    $0.00

                

        
                    $0.00

                







                    SUNDAY :: 48-Hour Video Challenge Screening

                      more info
Date/time: Sunday, September 29, 6:30pm-8pm. Location: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20009. Drinks + snacks provided.


                    Ended
                


        
                    $0.00

                

        
                    $0.00

                








Enter promotional code


						If you have a promotional code, enter it here:
						  
						
Apply






Thank you for registering for the Media Rise Festival! Follow us on Facebook, Twitter & Instagram: @mediarisenow #mediarise









Who's Going


        Loading your connections...
    




3 of your friends are going.
        Share it to get more people on board! Share







Sara Haughty
San Francisco, California
            







Luke Picard
London, United Kingdom
            







Rick Vespucio
Florence, Italy
            






Share Media Rise Festival 2014: Signature Events


                Share
            



                Tweet
            






Event Details



 
The 2014 Media Rise Festival kicks off on Monday, September 22 with a series of nightly Networking Lounges, plus Unplugged Spaces and user-submitted Community Events throughout the week. View the full schedule of events here: http://mediarise2014.sched.org/. Submit your own community event here.
You can register here on Eventbrite for our weekend Signature Events. See agenda below.
Questions? Contact the organizers at info[at]mediarisenow[dot]org.
Visit our website: http://mediarisenow.org
UPDATE, 8/15: Register during the month of August to receive 50% OFF regular admission.

Friday, September 26Pitch Night
Time: 7:30pm – 9pm (doors open at 6:30pm)Location: The Wonder Bread Factory, Wiltberger St NW, Washington, DC 20001
An evening showcase, co-sponsored by Newsweek, PVBLIC Foundation & Huge, giving media creators a chance to give their pitches and proposals in captivating 3-minute presentations, for a chance to win cash prizes from supportive funders and donors. The Pitch Night will be immediately followed by a party...
Party!
Time: 9pm – 2amLocation: The Wonder Bread Factory, Wiltberger St NW, Washington, DC 20001
Hosted against a beautiful backdrop of meaningful visual art and music contributed by cause-oriented creatives.
 
Saturday, September 27Forum
Time: 9am – 5pm (breakfast & registration begins 8am)Location: Impact Hub DC, 419 7th St NW, Washington, DC 20004
A daylong series of talks, presentations and workshops, convening people who are passionate about creating positive change through media. The forum is designed for information-sharing on case studies, best practices, and requests for collaboration in the media and social impact sectors.
Session Topics:

Health & Wellness
Environmental Sustainability
Hollywood & Entertainment
News & Journalism

Sunday, September 28Early Rise Brunch
Time: 10am – 12pmLocation: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th St NW, Washington, DC 20009
A networking event for storytellers, designers, scholars and social innovators to cultivate strategic relationships that further their collective reach and impact.
Youth Media Rise
Time: 2pm – 6pm (registration begins 1:30pm)Location: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th St NW, Washington, DC 20009
A festival-within-a-festival for youth (ages 13 to 18), media educators and engaged parents. It includes hands-on workshops, performances, studio spaces, a visual art showcase, and interactive lounges to enhance the curiosity and creative expression of young people in meaningful ways. Workshops for educators focus on digital media literacy and use of innovative technologies for amplifying youth voices.
Session Topics:

Environmental Awareness & Sustainability
Creativity, Innovation and Youth Advocacy

Interactive Workshops:

Music & Spoken Word
Dance & Movement
Art & Graphic Design

48-Hour Video Challenge Screening
Time: 6:30pm – 8pmLocation: Thurgood Marshall Center, 1816 12th St NW, Washington, DC 20009
A weekend competition, inviting filmmakers to create high-impact, high-quality videos for local nonprofits in just two days. The challenge concludes with a film screening, including an awards ceremony, to acknowledge the winning filmmakers.
 


                            Have questions about Media Rise Festival 2014: Signature Events? 
                                
                                    Contact Media Rise
                                




Attendee List

Sort by: Date | First Name | Last Name












Show More












                    When & Where
                













various




Washington, 
              DC 



Friday, September 26, 2014 at 6:30 PM - Sunday, September 28, 2014 at 8:00 PM (EDT)
						






  Add to my calendar


  Outlook Calendar


  Google Calendar


  Yahoo! Calendar


  iCal Calendar





Organizer


Media Rise

Media Rise connects people and ideas to promote meaningful media.
We believe in the power of storytelling, art and design to make the world a better place. We are committed to these calls to action: FEELWe empower people to create and consume meaningful media that promotes universal human values such as compassion, empathy and respect. CONNECTWe encourage collaboration between cause-driven creatives, media professionals, educators, government and nonprofit leaders to focus and amplify their collective impact. INSPIREWe celebrate success stories of how to unleash the power of media to accelerate social change. Rise with us.
@mediarisenow#mediarise 





 
                Contact the Organizer
            




                    View organizer profile
                



                    http://mediarisenow.org
                



                    facebook.com/mediarisenow
                



                    mediarisenow
                




32

                    past events on Eventbrite
                













-


Add to Order
Please wait...








                    Contact Organizer
                







                    Your message has been sent!
                










                        Your Name
                    






                        Email Address
                    






                        Message
                    







                            Enter the code as shown below:
                        









                            Your email will only be seen by the event organizer.
                        

Find out more about how your privacy is protected.









                        Send message
                    

                        Please wait...
                    


                    Cancel
                





                    Close
                






Eventbrite

            Use Eventbrite for event ticketing and online event registration


                    ©2014 Eventbrite


About
Terms
Privacy
Help Center
Cookie Policy




            Already registered?
            Get your tickets

                Questions?
                
                    Contact the organizer
                





















Please log in or sign up


In order to purchase these tickets in installments, you'll need an Eventbrite account. Log in or sign up for a free account to continue.


Log in
Sign up



 






















