OAU student quarantined, confesses contact with EnemuoOAU student quarantined, confesses contact with Enemuo












The Punch - Nigeria's Most Widely Read NewspaperBreaking News, information and opinion in NigeriaOctober 15th, 2014














   

   
HomeMetro Plusi-punchNewsWorldPoliticsBusinessAppointmentsTransportMoneyCapital MarketBusiness & EconomyInternational BusinessAM BusinessSportsOpinionViewpointLettersHealthScience WorldHealthwiseFeatureMidweek RevueBlogsJobsForumYou are here: Home / News / OAU student quarantined, confesses contact with Enemuo OAU student quarantined, confesses contact with Enemuo
September 10, 2014  by Femi Makinde and Sodiq Oyeleke  






Fear gripped students, parents and staff of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife on Tuesday over a report that a patient on admission at the OAU Health Centre was a suspected Ebola Virus Disease victim.
Though the management of the school initially denied the development but the Oyo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Temitope Ilori, said the sick student had confessed having contact with the late Port Harcourt doctor, Iyke Enemuo, who died of the EVD after he secretly treated an infected ECOWAS diplomat, Olu-Ibukun Koye, in a hotel in the Rivers State capital.
The commissioner said the female student had been put in the isolation ward.
Ilori said, “I was told that a student of the OAU who had contact with the doctor who died of the Ebola virus in Port Harcourt walked into the health centre when she was sick.
“She was said to have told doctors at the health centre that she had contact with the Port Harcourt doctor and was put under surveillance but she said she tested negative that time.
“Now she returned to the OAU to continue with her studies and was sick. She was said to have walked to the health centre and told them everything about her contact with the doctor.
“Her blood sample has been taken for another test in Lagos and we are awaiting the result. We pray she is not positive but she has been isolated at the health centre.”
When one of our correspondents visited the hospital on Tuesday, it was observed that health officials were disinfecting the surroundings of the medical centre and more attention was paid to places where patients sit before being attended to.
It was also learnt that top officials of the hospital held an emergency meeting after testing the suspected patient, who was said to have been on admission in the hospital since Monday.
Before the confirmation by the commissioner, the Public Relations Officer of the Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital Complex, Ile Ife, Mr. Olu Bello, had denied the report that a suspected Ebola virus patient had been admitted to the hospital.
Bello said he also heard that a student of the OAU, who returned from Port Harcourt, was down with the virus but he said the hospital did not have any case of Ebola.
“There is no case of Ebola at the OAUTHC. Nothing like that; I also heard something like that but such rumour has been causing unnecessary tension among the people but it is not true.”
When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the university, Mr. Abiodun Olanrewaju,   said the university would make its findings known to the public later Tuesday night.
“It is a suspicion; we don’t know yet. We will make our position on it known tonight. We are still working; we are in the office now,” he told one of our correspondents on the phone.
Olanrewaju later told The Punch that the ailing student had been moved to Lagos.
Though, medical officials in the hospital had denied that the said student tested positive to the Ebola virus, they confirmed that the Federal Government Emergency Ebola Team had been contacted.
One of the officials, who preferred not to be identified because he was not authorised to speak, said the suspected patient would be made to go through an intensive examination on Wednesday (today) by the EVD team from Lagos.
Another official claimed that the symptoms showed by the student “are not too different from fever”.
The official said, “A patient was brought to the health centre and due to the fact that she hails from Port Harcourt there were fears that it might be Ebola. We have carried out tests on the victim and found that she is suffering from a likely fever. Not satisfied, we pressed further by holding an emergency meeting which finished five minutes ago.”
When asked why the hospital was disinfecting its surroundings, another staff said, “We are only taking preventive measures. To be 100 per cent satisfied, we have sent a letter to the Ebola Emergency Team in Lagos and the team should arrive by tomorrow (today).”
To ensure calmness in the institution, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Bamitale Omole, urged students to desist from spreading rumours about EVD.
He spoke during the 52nd matriculation ceremony for 5,608 newly-admitted students of OAU on Tuesday.
He said, “A current issue of concern to us as an institution, which is also related to the judicious use of the facilities in the halls of residence, is maintaining a high standard of personal hygiene to halt the spread of EVD. The virus, which is not airborne, spreads through bodily fluids such as blood, sweat, urine, saliva and vomit. We should all co-operate to halt the spread of this disease by arming ourselves with adequate information about the disease and avoid spreading false rumours that certainly can cause fear and panic.
“A committee of experts had been set up in the university and it will step up its sensitisation and enlightenment campaign about the symptoms, modes of transmission and preventive measures of the disease.”
Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. 
Contact: editor@punchng.com


  





Discover How to run a Profitable Mini Importation Business with as Low N10,800 and Make 70,000 Naira per week Guaranteed! click Here


Make N250,000 Every Month from the Internet. No Experience Necessary. Click Here!


 


   Very Lucrative Internet & Telecom Biz, Laptops & Loans. Limited Slots Available. Click Now!!!   Discover How You Can Start A Profitable Mini Importation Business 
With A Start-Up Capital as Low as 15k and Make 40k per week. Guaranteed!!!...Click Here   Earn N17,000 or N40,000 every 10 business days. CLICK HERE NOW. All payment made to your bank account. Call 09031737771. GUARANTEED!  







FG proposes $78 oil benchmark for 2015 budget

20:45 /

			Comments			



Thugs attack Senator, others for campaigning in Akpabio’s community

20:30 /

			Comments			



NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment

20:20 /

			1 Comment			



Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande

20:05 /

			1 Comment			



More »




 
More Stories in News



						NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					





						Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					





						Ihedioha, aspirants flood PDP to pick nomination forms					


					October 15th, 2014 / 
					
					No Comments					 

					Read Full Story
					











Ally



Wake waka!






Pray For Super Eagle 2day



START EXP0RTING BlTTER K0LA IN SMALL QUANTITY AND EXPANDED WITHIN 3MONTHS. Guarantee !!!
====================================================
You can start this business will very little and build an empire within a very short time!
Making real m0ney in exp0rt is undoubtedly a fact. Many people want to become exp0rter but they truly did not know how to go about it successfully.
———————–
HINTS:
Do you know that the International price for Bltter k0la nut is 19 dollars per kilo gram in Eur0pe as at Feb 2014.
Do you know that exp0rting Bltter K0la does not require any Machine for processing as it can also be exp0rted raw.
So,take a bold step toward starting this very lucrative venture
=====———————————————
Send Ur E-mail to any f the following numbers with
the word “TEACH ME”: (O/8/O/3/9/4/5/4/6/7/5 ), (O/8/O/5/8/4/9/9/9/O/4)
and check you inbox for lots of info for FREE
—————————————————————————–








Doublee Dee



A deadly runs!!






Noble



Title of new home video?








UnapologeticallyYoruba



close down schools now. It might seem extreme but students are the easiest way for the virus to explode into something else!!!






Kalitaaruku



They cant close down universities, students should be mature enough to carry our preventive measures, unlike primary and secondary schools






Okey Ojiako



Na lie, you probably didn’t attend a university. When students are doing practicals they inevitably have bodily contacts with each other due to crowding. The same scenario plays out in the hostels due to squatting. Which preventive measures are you talking about?






Kalitaaruku



If u base it on that then every institution should be closed, churches, mosque, rallies, meetings etc






Dr concerned



let them use preventive measures like  methylated spirit for hands and microfiber gloves for cleaning surfaces.






omoyooba



when it becomes an epidemic, you will appreciate the wisdom in UnapologeticallyYoruba’s statement.






Kalitaaruku



It will not be epidemic. And like i said, if we want shutting down of universities, then we should shut down mosque and churches too? Or should those ones be left open?








Ade#



Exactly, for another one month. The last thing we need is an epidemic, the fact that Lagos state government was able to quickly contain the virus shouldn’t be a reason to underestimate the severity of the virus and how fast it can spread.








AMA



WAKA WAKA…WETIN SHE GO FIN FOR PH?ONLINE AKWUNA






bridecom



U are at best a virus urself






sam



were you there??








davido



Nigeria and rumour mongering; there are a million disease which causes fever; why all this panic? Why do people just like creating fears in others.The country (Liberia) where Ebola came from; are people still not living in that country? Why do we just like to create fear in people so much that people will die of malaria out of the fear of having EVD. Many people have died of none EVD related disease because of the spreading of rumour as they have not been treated  when they reported in hospitals for fevers totally unrelated to Ebola.Let us be careful and stop stigmatisation so that people can be bold to report in hospital when they are unwell.






omoyooba



the knowledge of EVD is at best scanty. the lady had contact enemuo. they might be counting from the first day of contact at which she might not have picked the virus. may be she picked the virus days later and the 21 days from the day she picked it had not elapsed and she was discharged. The problem is if the bats in OAU pick that virus; it could become a disaster.






Dr concerned



you are right….if the bats pick up the virus it will be bad.but i am equally  concerned about the  Vampires,Witches,Spirits and others picking it up while operating.






omoyooba



lol. you are not serious.








Dr concerned



“are people still not living in that country”…… people like you scare me.Einstein was right there is no limit to human …..






Dr concerned



Most people santise their hand with methylated spirit and use microfiber cleaning gloves to clean surfaces.










Stylo



Somebody don touch you after you touched enemuo?
Please everyone who don touch am since she came back from porta and when she deh  portha make you all come out talk true o. 
God go bless una.






Jboy



Stylo, you’re right, we should encourage victims to speak out rather than mock them for any reason. We have to collectively fight the Ebola war. Please disengage from any act capable of discouraging suspected victims from speaking out.






italkso dot com



You are right, i don’t know why some people are so childish in their comment.






freshdream



Yes not only to speak but also to expect good treatment and response. Considering ehat has happened and the fact that the USA and Uk sent facilities thousands of miles away to fetch their sick citizens, the least we expect from government aftet over 3 months is to build a facility in each zone that had capacity to take at least 200 patients in isolation with satelite tv, open line cellphone, computer with wifi access and ICU monitors in each unit to assure citizens that quarantine or isolation will be made as comfortable as possible








Clara J.



Well said. i think these people should not be relegated in the society because this will only make them keep mute which would definitely cause more havoc.






http://folakemiodoaje.com                Folakemi



Only that people wound not. This is because we stigmatise just about everything. In a sane country where most people genuinely cared. Individuals, parents and guardians will be honest about their travel information and stay away if need be but in Nigeria, they will be tested +ve before they’d admit their true story. It is all related.








Jboy



close down the schools temporarily to minimize the spread of this dreaded disease






Koko



There is fire on the mountain. One should only hope that this case is not confirmed to be Ebola. Otherwise, the whole of OAU is in trouble.






Dele Odugbemi



A lot of University girls engage in illicit acts with menfolk of all kinds to get cheap money.






Ogbonigboru



Punch you people confuse readers! OAU health center which is located within the university premises is different from OAUTHC (obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital complex) which is a bit far from the university itself! Stop confusing readers!






Ade#



I don’t understand the rush to open schools when the virus has not been fully contained.  
November seem more appropriate. I feels so sad for this young woman, God will be her strength.






chat4zeal



Instead of pushing Ebola, you are focusing on pushing resumption date, while adults (not school pupils) are getting infected by the day.






Ade#



What do you meaning by pushing Ebola?










Sunny Oke.



What kind of contact did she have with the Ebola infected doctor, Runssssssssssss.






Unbilled Wizard



That’s so true.
This is copy & paste journalism.
OAU be it the the health center in school or OAUTHC are both in Ile-Ife, Osun State.
How come it’s the Commissioner of Health of Oyo State that is being questioned???
Again, we shouldn’t be too quick to judge. Is it not possible for the lady to reside in PH & attend sch at OAU?
Her contact may may not necessarily be “runs” as many claimed here. Many people fall ill & see the doctor for various reasons. 






Nigerian



Sunny you wan wunjo me with lafter abeg….






Wise Head



Grow up, boy, okay. This is not the time to be childish over a serious matter. What you are insinuating now can compound the battle against ebola. It can make other contacts refuse to report themselves. To my mind, the girl is a hero (or heroine). She should be praised and not maligned.








Kalitaaruku



Our biggest problem is the diplomat and Ph doctor, what if he had a girlfriend, what if his girlfriend had a boyfriend who had several girlfriends..and all had sexual contact?






http://batman-news.com                Noble



Then they should quarantine Niger Delta Region






lewi



Hahaha . Please stop the joke, you just cracked my ribs






Kalitaaruku



And south west too??










Gloria Silvia



It is well with our soul……






sunday322



So sad,Dr Enemuo died for breaking infection control protocol by secretly treating an Ebola patient due to his greed for money
This OAU student has now contracted this deadly Ebola disease for secretly having affair with an infected and married Enemuo
What an irony of faith
At any rate,this type of case involving this OAU student is the more reason why all schools should be get under lockdown for now,till Ebola is effectively brought under control 






Okey Ojiako



You are most uncharitable to this lady. This is simply malicious stigmatisation. It is too dangerous to discourage sick persons from opening up. By her present action she has helped the school to be more circumspect. Hygiene has improved and more students will be watchful of the slightest signs. This will help in the containment efforts. No man or woman has a right to judge another person, talk less imputing unproven dimensions.






Wise Head



Grow up. This is not the time to be childish over a serious matter. What you are saying now can compound the battle against ebola. It can make other contacts refuse to report themselves. To my mind, the girl is a hero (or heroine). She should be praised and not maligned.






sunday322



Mr,you can still make your point without being rude
So grow up yourself in your manner of communication 






Wise Head



There is no rudeness there. I was only being blunt; I guess that’s what you mean. Where people are talking about a matter of life and death, which ebola is, you don’t come to trivialize it with insensitive and frivolous comments. What if your stigmatizing comment succeeds in driving other victims underground, thereby compounding the ebola problem? Have you been monitoring media reports from Liberia and see the kind of tragic debasement ebola has unleashed in that country? Next time, if you have nothing meaningful to contribute to a forum, keep away. It is not compulsory. No offense intended. Just an honest advice to save you and other Nigerians. Cheers.






sunday322



I though you were silly I never knew you are that stupid
Keep your advice to yourself
I thought you were responsible but I never knew you are one uncultured scum
Mind you, I am not on this forum to write what you or anyone want to hear or read
You just have to learn about diversity  of opinions






Wise Head



Not when you are trying to sabotage the efforts to combat the ravaging ebola disease! Somebody got to call you to order, did you hear that? And if I didn’t, another person would will surely do it. Stop getting angry; nobody’s here to insult you, okay. Bye.






sunday322



It’s not about what you said but about the manner it was said
If you had written it in this polite way,I could had gladly taken heed of your advice which I never quarrelled with
Bye








sam



@ sunday322, i am just hearing this “secretly having affair” from you. i guess you were there?? Man, grow up!!! other points by you make sense but this…. you are stigmatising already..






sunday322



You do not need to be rude to drive home your point
There nothing wrong with you raising an objection to any comment but,mind your language 








Wednesday



Sunday 322, how do you know that the lady was having an affair with the doctor? The article said that she hails from Port Harcourt, which implies that she might either reside there  or go on a visit since she might have family ties there. A doctor treats everyone, male and female. If she was male, would you have said the same thing? It’s good to be open minded.






sunday322



Thanks for your observation
Regards 










Henk



We are making a huge mistake here… When you get in contact with EVD and after testing you prove negative, that does not mean that you are totally free – you can still test positive with time. 






Heedayah



i dont understand, i thought people who came in contact with the doctor are suppose to be under quarantine for 21 days why did they let this lady go??? and again she is suppose to be under surveillance how did she manage to travel out of PH??? thank God she said the truth and didnt lie about her contact with the doctor, PH govt need to step up there game in this EVD fight






government



May GOD heal the lady for her frankness.






Akubest



Well, if she had been under surveillance and later cleared as she claimed, then she can’t be blamed. It would have been a different kettle of fish if she never indicated that she came into contact with the the late greedy and wicked doctor. It’s equally good that she availed the medical officials of the information concerning her contact with Enemuo. Going by what’s being said about Ebola, it may not be the virus because I think that it’s already more than twenty one days since the doctor passed away (I’m not too sure though). Let’s pray that it’s not, because as a student it’ll be a very delicate case. Though it’s possible for her to remember those she had intimate contacts with, it might prove difficult tracing the casual primary contacts she made while going into and out of crowded lecture halls. 






Sorochi James John



You guys should stop this rubbish, which kind contact did she had with Enemuo? My spirit did not accept this particular suspected Ebola case. 1m for 1 contaminated hospital bed? Somebody is trying to raise fund here.






sam



God help you








Dr concerned



let them protect themselves with methylated spirit for hands and microfiber gloves for cleaning surfaces.






Adure



i think there should be a campaign against stigmatization of Ebola patient also the carriers should be made to see reasons why they should not hide their status, cos if they do, their entire family friends and society is at risk, and give them examples where a family was wiped out in Liberia, i also read of a family of Eight who lost their life to Ebola living one survivor. we really need help.






Olayinka Blessing



u are ryt






Emmanuel Ogunniyi



Please OAUTHC should quickly refer the student to Ebola Isolation Center in Lagos for immediate attention. Most early detected infected patients have been treated and recovered.






sam



You are right








AB



Surveillance should expire in 21 days. How can she travell to Lagos. How can they say that she tested negative when her period of surveillance did not sxpire?
We are jokers!






Manhuntalive



Ebola has been beaten, let us encourage anyone with symptoms to report quickly, as early diagnosis is key to recovery.
Secondly, Schools should be closed and not used to play politics. We should put interest of the people above personal desires and goals..






prayer



I think it is better all tertiary institutions should be asked to close down at least for a month to see how we can unanimously contain this disease. Let’s invite some of these nonproductive tertiary institutions workers to contribute their own quota to see how far we can go at least in a month. We should stop claiming dt some are adults. A single carrier entered river state & d whole state is in crisis since then.






ifebuche



Can Punch define ‘Contact’ Here?






Say It



So all sample tests from PH to Ife can only be done in Lagos. One can only pray that we don’t find ourselves in a situation where the Lagos labs are overwhelmed. Are states thinking of acquiring the capacity to test for Ebola?






Waka Pass



The authorities of OAU should immediately test this lady’s acquaintances and classmates and monitor them for the WHO mandated 21 day minimum observation period. The hostel ‘s lavatory where she stays should be immediately closed down. The school’s authorities after identifying her contacts should also be preparing to close the school down till there is a valid vaccine or there is enough survivor serum to treat patients if there is an outbreak. Knowing the facilities available in that institution and the state of the hostels, this is not a virus you want to deal with with over 15000 students present in close living proximity. Question: Dr. Enemuo died on August 22 and this lady has been in school for a week. If she had been monitored for 21 days, would she not not have been released on September 12th, 2014 which is in the future?  2nd Scenario: Even if she had contact with him prior to his death, say a week, she would only have been released on September 5, 2014. However, the reason this is not plausible is she could not have been isolated even before it was known that Dr. Enemuo had EVD and would die of it. Conclusion: This lady must have been released (for whatever reasons) within the virus’ incubation period and knowing that EVD is more infectious at symptom manifestation she should be treated with utmost care as an active case until otherwise proven. To the OAU authorities:  Prevention is better than cure. Abo oro ni a n so fun omoluabi ……. God bless.






Ilesanmi



Oyo state Commissioner for Health said “I was told that a student of the OAU who had contact with the doctor who died of the Ebola virus in Port Harcourt walked into the health centre when she was sick” Is it in place of Oyo state Commissioner to speak on Ebola case in Osun state Can a true state Commissioner for health afford to make a loose statement on Ebola, in the manner the Punch reported?






Ilesanmi



Oyo state Commissioner for Health said “I was told that a student of the OAU who had contact with the doctor who died of the Ebola virus in Port Harcourt walked into the health centre when she was sick” Is it in place of Oyo state Commissioner to speak on Ebola case in Osun state?  Can a true state Commissioner for health afford to make a loose statement on Ebola, in the manner the Punch reported?












Recommended Stories




							JP Morgan Chase posts $5.6bn profit						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Health and fitness news						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Electricity distribution firms owe govt agencies N14.16bn						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						1 Comment						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Passengers decry location of Lagos airport’s car park						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						10 Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							The evolution of sleep: 700 million years of melatonin						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






							Recognise when your heart is most vulnerable						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						






Related Stories



							Ihedioha, aspirants flood PDP to pick nomination forms						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						1 Comment						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Eagles beat Sudan 3-1 in AFCON qualifier						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Aregbesola urges Nigerian leaders to restructure education 						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							PDP welcomes Buhari to presidential race						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							NJC to probe judge over Adamawa judgment						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						





							Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande						


						October 15th, 2014 / 
						
						Comments						 

						Read Full Story
						












Most Read


Recent Comments


Most Commented








 
Disobey Fayemi’s curfew, Fayose tells Ekiti people





 
Afren sacks CEO, others over Nigerian oil scandal





 
Keshi says countries waiting to hire him





 
Chibok girls: Police stop protesters’ march to Villa 





 
Arsenal scout Emenike








 

wiseone  on Uduaghan denies sending name of successor to Jonathan




 

Shehu Monguno  on Jonathan sidelines Yoruba in key appointments   -Akande




 

Olu Ade  on NIS tragedy: Victims protest against Jonathan’s broken promise




 

Tunsj  on 2015: Buhari visits Fashola, others ahead of declaration




 

Moses2Ola_74Fam  on Akinrinade commends Fayemi’s achievements









 
								Disobey Fayemi’s curfew, Fayose tells Ekiti people							




 
								Chibok girls: Police stop protesters’ march to Villa 							




 
								UPDATE: Buhari formally declares for presidency							




 
								Keshi says countries waiting to hire him							




 
								Obanikoro, Wike, Maku, others resign, target gov tickets							









12 convicted soldiers don’t deserve to die –Poll 
More stories
 
         

Columnists









    			Neither a ‘bird woman’ nor a witch    		




    		A few years ago, a video that has since gone viral showed a popular pastor allegedly slapping a female member…    	



Read More




 
      
Information Technology
CWG might become Nigeria’s Alibaba —NSEMore InfoTech stories
 
 


      





  
Categories

Select Category
2012 in view  (7)
A-Z of Careers  (2)
Abuja bomb blast  (11)
Accessory Addicts  (38)
Adam & Eve  (51)
AFCON 2013  (374)
Africa  (1,908)
Agric-Economy  (108)
Airtime  (1)
AM Business  (1,667)
America decides 2012  (37)
Appointments  (1,416)
Aprokokos  (14)
Aprokokos  (14)
Arts & Life  (949)
Arts Dome  (127)
Aso Rock Lens  (96)
Auto Famous  (57)
Auto News  (68)
Automedics  (169)
Aviation&travel  (40)
Banking matters  (58)
Beauty  (140)
Best of Metro  (1)
Brief  (66)
Bring back our girls  (54)
Business  (1,744)
Business & Economy  (4,113)
Business Etiquette  (48)
Business Interview  (6)
Buzz… social media diary  (42)
Campus Celebrity  (4)
Campus Champion  (11)
Capital Market  (2,910)
Career  (2)
Carnival  (1)
Celebrity Couple  (85)
CEO Platform  (62)
City Metro  (414)
close-up on ict  (175)
Community Service  (1)
Confab Gist  (17)
Confab Interview  (11)
Confab pictures  (13)
Confab Watch  (149)
Court Metro  (1,208)
court vibes  (447)
Crime Digest  (184)
Crime Metro  (251)
Crossfire  (183)
Culture  (40)
Diplomatic Post  (42)
Discourse  (1)
Discovery  (59)
Dreamweddings  (67)
E-Punch  (485)
Editorial  (880)
Education  (2,622)
Ekiti 2014  (11)
Eko 2012  (91)
Encounter  (89)
Energy  (1,571)
Entertainment  (86)
Entertainment  (23)
Essence  (189)
Etcetera Live  (22)
Ethnic Fashion  (30)
Etiquette  (41)
Everyday Life  (3)
Fagbenle on Sunday  (21)
Family Life  (1)
Famous Parents  (90)
Fashion Fix  (5)
Feature  (1,027)
Feedback  (1)
Financial Punch  (128)
Fitness  (24)
Food & Beverages  (103)
For men  (116)
For the Record  (11)
Foreign Feature  (31)
Foreign Health  (39)
Foreign Metro  (138)
Gadget Smart  (166)
Gadgets  (3)
Girls Club  (23)
Global Entertainment  (146)
Global Fashion  (83)
Global Finance  (75)
Global Trends  (11)
Health  (1,987)
Health Science  (418)
Healthwise  (1,953)
Healthy eating  (40)
Helpline  (1)
Highflyers  (64)
Home  (80)
Homes & Property  (1,834)
Hotseat  (35)
i-punch  (1,805)
ICT Clinic  (101)
In Vogue  (90)
Industry  (1,377)
Information Technology  (2,378)
Insurance  (1,110)
Interior Design  (48)
International Business  (6,506)
Interview  (112)
Intimacy  (52)
Investment Platform  (22)
Jebose Boulevard  (16)
King of Suspense  (28)
Kitchen  (19)
Knocks  (2)
Lagos Pulse  (125)
Leisure  (1)
Letters  (6,663)
Life & Beat  (257)
Life & Times  (137)
Lifestyle  (344)
Lifestyle  (77)
Lifestyle Diets  (31)
Lifeway Hints  (2)
Literary Punch  (368)
Local Entertainment  (110)
London 2012 Olympics  (94)
London Paralympic Games 2012  (39)
Love Series  (82)
Maritime  (76)
Medals  (140)
Memoirs  (5)
Men Style  (16)
Menswear  (41)
Mental Health Matters  (111)
Metro  (3,365)
Metro Plus  (1,211)
Midweek Revue  (836)
Mixed Grill  (127)
MobileMetro  (1)
Money  (3,343)
Money Matters  (6)
My Favourites  (34)
mynews.com  (269)
Nation’s Capital  (134)
National Conference 2014  (112)
New Year Special  (7)
News  (47,493)
News analysis  (4)
Nigeria @ 53  (12)
Nonagenarian  (3)
Octogenarian  (160)
Odd  (61)
Odd News  (10)
On the marble  (1)
Ondo decides 2012  (218)
Online Crew Diary  (34)
Opinion  (3,014)
Owambe  (55)
Parenting  (46)
Party  (1)
Penetrating Passes  (113)
People & Places  (73)
Personal Finance  (20)
Personalities  (93)
Pocket Lawyer  (142)
Political analysis  (16)
Politics  (2,456)
Power of Reason  (13)
Power Talkback  (260)
Professionals  (3)
Punch Revue  (19)
Punchwise  (146)
Relationship  (69)
Reporter’s Diary  (5)
Reporter’s diary  (4)
Rich and Famous  (52)
Safety  (8)
Saturday Beats  (666)
Saturday Breeze  (25)
Saturday crime  (36)
Saturday People  (72)
Saturday Vista  (3)
Scenes  (2)
Science World  (648)
Sex & Sexuality  (214)
Shopping  (1)
Sight-seeing  (12)
Sights & Signs  (45)
Society  (1,437)
Special Feature  (45)
Spice  (40)
Sportlight  (62)
Sports  (13,866)
Sports Buzz  (172)
Strange Circuit  (62)
Style  (57)
Style Buys  (2)
Style Insider  (2)
Sunday Chef  (66)
Sunday doctor  (82)
SundayCEO  (73)
Super Saturday  (164)
Super Saturday Crime  (10)
Super Saturday Lounge  (55)
Talk of the Town  (13)
Temp  (1)
The Fashionista  (80)
The Law & You  (309)
THE PUNCH: Best of 2012  (20)
The Pundit  (134)
The Tube  (58)
Tingles  (60)
Tit bits … Tit bits  (5)
Transport  (1,482)
Travel & tourism  (6)
Trends  (36)
Trivia Constitutional  (115)
Tunde Fagbenle ‘Saying it’ THE WAY IT IS  (99)
Urbane Man  (45)
US Presidential Election  (22)
Viewpoint  (309)
Vista  (26)
Voice Coach  (18)
Voices  (54)
Vox Pop  (8)
WEEKENDstarter  (290)
Weird & Awkward  (9)
Weird Planet  (60)
Wellness  (223)
Womenswear  (31)
World  (5,043)
World Cup  (347)
Year in review  (3)
You, Your Finance  (5)
Young Entrepreneur  (81)
Youngsters  (13)






 


     
 






 
 


  
Return to top of page . Switch to MobileCopyright © 2014 Punch Nigeria Limited · Terms of Service .  Advertise . Contact Us . Log in 


 













