Lexington News | National NewsLexington News | National News



























UN estimates Ebola casualties could eventually reach 20000

Thu, 08/28/2014 10:33 AM




On Thursday the WHO stated that the Ebola outbreak could cross the giant figure of 20,000. Presently, according to the number of cases detected and calculation of the probability, 12,000 cases are already present and are undetected. This time the past record of 400 affected people was surpassed this time. This time it has become an international disease spreading over various countries. It shows no signs of, particularly in terms of environments or typical surroundings as it is spreading. Out of the 3,069 reported cases, around 1,552 have lost their lives in Liberia. The outbreaks are increasing at a high rate and are alarming a massive number of populations. In Geneva, a plan costing $489 million and 12,000 national as well as international workers has been framed in order to control Ebola in the coming nine months. 
First the “heat out of this outbreak” is planned to be removed in three months, which will be followed by strategies that will help in stopping the transmission of this dangerous virus. Thereafter awareness regarding dealing with this situation and preparing oneself with all the possibilities will be looked at. The estimated number is a calculation with the growing number each day and the facilities to deal with such a robust number are being planned. Flights to Sierra Leone are being cancelled for the prevention of spreading of the virus. 
On Wednesday, Nigerian authorities said they have not yet eliminated the disease from Africa's most populous nation but that it was being contained. The World Food Program is planning to feed a population of a million people in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone as these areas have been cut off from the market and are not getting proper supplies for their basic requirements. On the other hand the US National Institute planned to start testing an experimental Ebola vaccine and the trials would be shot in healthy US adults in Maryland. These will also be tested in the UK by British experts. With the increasing outbreak, the pace of vaccine trials is being increased. A NIAID director said that there is an urgent need for a protective Ebola vaccine to protect the huge number of the affected and to prevent those who are still unaffected. 






Latest National News





Ebola protocols change
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:22 PMA nurse was infected by an Ebola patient and is now being treated in the same hospital. The government is now concerned about the awareness and the handling techniques that must be used to prevent such cases.  “We have to rethink the way we address...


Turkey bombs Kurdish militants
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:28 PMTurkey will suffer a similar war situation similar to the war against Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq. It has been reported that the air force had bombed Kurdish fighters furious at Ankara's refusal to help protect their kin in Syria. Last...


Chocolate under pressure because of Ebola
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:04 PMM&M’s, Butterfingers and Snickers Bars use cacao as their raw major ingredients which is highly produced in the Ivory coast. The coast has decided not to share any present relationships and has closed its borders that were shared with Liberia and...


Police seize assets to fund operations
Mon, 10/13/2014 12:17 PMA huge amount of Americans funds have been used by the police in the recent years for buying guns, armored cars and electronic surveillance gear. Also, the money was spent on luxury vehicles, travel and a clown named Sparkles. The details in annual...


Anti protestors attack in Hong Kong
Mon, 10/13/2014 12:10 PMProtest barriers were broken down by hundreds of masked and armed people in the heart of Hong Kong. The protests were opposed by taxi drivers since it affected their business to a large extent. "Open the roads," chanted a crowd, which included taxi and...




More National News 



















Follow us:

facebook
googleplus
linkedin
pinterest
twitter























Wednesday, 15 October 2014

Email
RSS

 













High
61 °F Cloudy



Low
52 °F Showers





Right Now

58 °F 

Light Rain




Rain
50%


Wind
SSW at 8 mph


Humidity
84%






More Weather


 




Home
Blog
Classifieds
Coupons
Yellow Pages


 






Disclaimer

									Some materials contained on this site are protected by copyright and therefore may not be reproduced, 
									distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the express written permission.
								
NewsSides.com © 2014 All Rights Reserved





Our Company

Advertising
Linking
News Sides










