BBC News - Ebola drains already weak West African health systemsBBC News - Ebola drains already weak West African health systems












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























24 September 2014
Last updated at 07:30 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola drains already weak West African health systems

By Farouk Chothia
BBC Africa










Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.





























Abba Abashi, Liberian-Nigerian student: "My mum caught me crying"




Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 The deadly Ebola virus ravaging Sierra Leone and Liberia has pushed already weak healthcare systems into intensive care.
While global efforts have been focused on Ebola, many people have failed to receive treatment for other diseases such as malaria and measles, and this has led to even more deaths, experts say. 
"It's a vicious cycle," Sierra Leonean risk analyst Omaru Sisay told the BBC. 
"Because of Ebola, cases of people not being treated for malaria, cholera and measles have increased significantly," he says. 
Painting a similar picture about Liberia, the UN children's agency Unicef says Ebola has severely disrupted health services for children, caused schools to close and left thousands of children without a parent.
"Children are dying from measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases and pregnant women have fewer places to deliver their babies safely," it said in a statement.


Sierra Leone's health services were neglected because of conflict



Liberia has been badly affected by the outbreak - here a mother and daughter lie down near a treatment centre



Liberia risks an outbreak of water-borne diseases

The BBC's Jonathan Paye-Layleh in the Liberian capital, Monrovia, says that while statistics are not available, suspicion exists that some of the deaths attributed to Ebola have been caused by cholera, malaria, typhoid and other illnesses, as people either did not go to hospitals or were turned away by medical workers who feared that they carried the deadly virus. 
He says with the rainy season under way, the government has in recent weeks taken steps to prevent a cholera outbreak by chlorinating wells in Monrovia. 
Unicef estimates that 8.5 million children and young people under the age of 20 live in areas affected by Ebola in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea. Of these, 2.5 million are under the age of five.



Skills shortage: 




 Liberia with a 4.2m population: 51 doctors; 978 nurses and midwives; 269 pharmacists
 Sierra Leone with a 6m population: 136 doctors; 1,017 nurses and midwives; 114 pharmacists
 Source: Afri-Dev.Info



It is a cruel twist that Liberia and Sierra Leone have been worst affected by the deadliest ever Ebola outbreak, as the two countries were still recovering from brutal civil wars that decimated their infrastructure in the 1990s when the disease hit.
The virus spread from Guinea, which borders both nations. It has been far more effective in containing the outbreak because it has more resources and a "more resilient" health system, Mr Sisay says. 
'Black bag doctors'
Similarly, Nigeria, one of Africa's wealthiest states, has contained the virus after it was brought to the country by a Liberian government worker travelling on a commercial airline.  


Nigeria has been able to contain the outbreak 

In contrast, Liberia and Sierra Leone are poor, with almost non-existent health systems. 
Liberia has 51 doctors to serve the country's 4.2 million people (an average of 0.1 doctor per 10,000 people) and 136 for Sierra Leone's population of six million (an average of 0.2 per 10,000), according to data compiled by the Afri-Dev.Info health and social development agency. 






Tune in to the BBC World Service at 19:00 GMT on Friday 26 September to listen to The Africa Debate: Do failed health systems in Africa make global epidemics inevitable? The programme will also be available to listen to online or as a download.
To take part on Twitter - use the hashtag #BBCAfricaDebate - Facebook or Google+



Against this backdrop, many Liberians rely on what are locally known as "black bag doctors" who go from village to village to treat people, often with fake or outdated drugs, our correspondent says.
When people do not have money to pay the "black bag doctors", he adds, they give them some of their best livestock - chickens or goats. 
In Sierra Leone, state-employed health workers do private home visits, Mr Sisay says. 
"They work on the side and treat patients at home. A maternity nurse may treat somebody who has high blood pressure; a dispenser somebody who has a respiratory illness." 
And when Ebola spread across the two nations, people refused to go to hospitals because they saw them "as the most dangerous place to be", Mr Sisay says. 
He was referring to the fact that hospitals were seen as the source of the disease. It has claimed the lives of many health workers - 61 in Sierra Leone, including its only virologist, Dr Umar Khan.



Ebola voices: Lionel Fredericks in Liberia



I'm a medical student and I should have sat my exams by now but the Liberian government closed all schools in August.
We now live in fear and it is so intense that even having a small fever makes you very afraid.
I tried to avoid mosquito bites as I don't want even getting the slightest illness.
Living with Ebola



Many people also did not bother to go to hospital, as there is no cure for Ebola - although supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery.
The deaths of top medics has raised concerns that healthcare could get even worse if the heavily donor-dependent Liberian and Sierra Leonean governments fail to replace them.
"The Ebola crisis demonstrates Africa's health workforce shortages will not disappear without improved long-term multi-sectoral co-ordination, planning and investment across education, labour, human resources and health sectors," says Afri-Dev.Info.


Many African governments are accused of neglecting basic standards of hygiene

Mr Sisay says the fact that many African leaders go abroad to receive treatment shows they do not have confidence in the health systems of their own countries. 
Commenting on why they do not face a public backlash from voters, he replies: "Why do people accept gutters overflowing with rubbish? Why do people accept officials taking kickbacks? In Africa, people have become accustomed to mediocrity because they have been governed badly for many years."
'Rock-bottom'
Dr Johanna Hanefeld of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine says donors tend to focus on "disease-specific funding" - for instance, by spending on medicines for a million children at risk of malaria, as this makes it easier to justify expenditure to their domestic constituencies.
However, this is changing as donors realise the importance of funding "hardware" like hospitals and equipment - an initiative that could gain momentum following US President Barack Obama's announcement last week of help to build hospitals and train health workers, Dr Hanefeld notes.
Ultimately though, health services are most effective in countries with a large tax base, which is not the case in Liberia or Sierra Leone, or where there is a political will to invest, like Cuba, Costa Rica and Sri Lanka, she adds. 
Expressing a similar view, Mr Sisay says Liberia and Sierra Leone have hit "rock-bottom" since the Ebola outbreak - and a concerted effort will have to be made by their governments and foreign donors to ensure they are better-placed to cope with any future crisis. 



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Spread by body fluids, such as blood and saliva
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but current outbreak has mortality rate of about 70%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no proven vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats, a delicacy for some West Africans, are considered to be virus's natural host





More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch









Related Internet links


WHO


MSF




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top stories



Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards


Global shares slide on growth fears


Reeva's death 'end of the world'


BBC website blocked in China









Features & Analysis




Diet U-turn

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  




Fighting for justice

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss  	
				  




Rich list

If Black America were a country, where would it rank globally? 	
				  




Bible Belt ballot

The place where country music and abortion don't mix 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Second Texas Ebola case announced



3: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



4: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



5: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



3: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



4: Why is the US Navy practising for war with China?



5: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



6: Dutch bikers join fight against IS



7: Girl meets Hillary Clinton, freaks out



8: Giant kangaroo 'walked on two feet' 



9: US spy Greenglass's death revealed



10: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



Video/Audio




1: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



3: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



4: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



5: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



6: In 60 seconds: What is Ebola? Watch



7: How does Ebola attack human cells? Watch



8: Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo unveiled Watch



9: Drunken hovercraft landing on CCTV Watch



10: On board USS George Washington Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Unexpected oasis

Crime plagues other parts of Honduras, but not this colourful utopian island











Programmes



Click Watch

The Russian artist who plays music on his arm through a barcode tattoo






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    








