Why I’m going to Africa to tackle Ebola - TelegraphWhy I’m going to Africa to tackle Ebola - Telegraph

































Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Wednesday 15 October 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










Politics
Investigations
Obits
Education
Earth
Science
Health
Defence
Scotland
Royal
Celebrities
Weird




Home»
News»
World News»
Ebola











Why I’m going to Africa to tackle Ebola

An NHS doctor explains why she has voluteered to be in the front-line fight 
  against the devastating disease











Volunteer health workers examine personal protective equipment at a new Ebola virus treatment centre in Liberia Photo: Reuters









 




							By Amy Hughes

7:02AM BST 25 Sep 2014

Comments

 



Yesterday, it was announced that 400 staff working in the NHS have answered an 
  appeal to travel to Sierra Leone to fight Ebola. I am one of them.


This outbreak, which started last December, has already claimed more than 
  2,600 lives. On Tuesday the World Health Organisation (WHO) warned that the 
  number of cases could reach hundreds of thousands by January. The Centers 
  for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the US claim that, at worst, 
  Ebola could become endemic in Africa, with 1.4 million cases by the start of 
  2015. 


The urgency of the situation is why health professionals across the world are 
  coming together to support communities in West Africa that are in desperate 
  need of their knowledge and expertise. Britain is just a part of the 
  international response to Ebola, but as a country we can be so proud of 
  those who have stepped forward.


The UK appeal is being coordinated by Save the Children, the Departments for 
  Health and International Development, and the charity UK-Med, which hosts 
  the UK International Emergency Medical Response Register through which NHS 
  workers are applying to volunteer. British Armed Forces are already in the 
  country constructing an Ebola treatment unit. Those who have come forward 
  are of all ages and skills: some will have been deployed abroad before; for 
  many it will be the first time.


I am 34 and an emergency medical clinician. I work part-time at Derriford 
  Hospital in Plymouth and as a clinical lecturer in emergency response at the 
  Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute at the University of 
  Manchester. I’ve been involved with humanitarian work for the past six 
  years. I love the challenge it presents and the privilege of engaging with 
  different communities.

Related Articles



Obama: we are not moving fast enough to stop Ebola

26 Sep 2014



How the US government delayed Ebola treatment

24 Sep 2014



Ebola survivor Will Pooley to donate blood to create treatment

23 Sep 2014



NHS staff are being asked to volunteer to fight Ebola outbreak

22 Sep 2014





When you decide to work in a disaster area it is hard on your loved ones. My 
  mother and father are retired, and it is difficult for them, even if they 
  understand my passion for such work. That said, if my personal situation 
  changed and I was married or had children, things might be different.


We will be deployed over the coming months after extensive training in the UK 
  and then in Sierra Leone when we arrive. Each volunteer will get a full 
  personal protection suit: zipped up hood, goggles or face shield, mask, 
  double gloves, an apron and covering for our boots. It will be very hot, and 
  very demanding in the field.


Of course we will be apprehensive, and it is always a shock when you are first 
  confronted with the devastation. The spread of the virus has been 
  catastrophic and this week WHO revised its estimated mortality rate for 
  Ebola from 50 per cent to 70 per cent – adding further to the fear that 
  already grips communities where outbreaks occur.


We will be subjected to sights unlike anything we’ve encountered back home. 
  Last year, I worked for two weeks in the Philippines as part of the relief 
  effort following Typhoon Haiyan. Prior to that, I spent seven months in Sri 
  Lanka working with Médecins Sans Frontières. I have learnt from those 
  deployments how to develop a level of resilience to help manage things.


When I was in Sri Lanka I wrote a lot of emails to myself about my 
  experiences. Writing, I found, is wonderfully cathartic. I haven’t read them 
  back but I might have a look before I go to West Africa to remind myself of 
  the challenges I may be facing.


The other way of coping is to talk to those who have experienced the 
  situation. One of the biggest challenges volunteers encounter is returning 
  home and trying to explain to family and friends what they have seen and 
  done. It will be vital to ensure there is effective debriefing for returning 
  team members.


In West Africa we will be on the front line, but well-rehearsed in how to 
  reduce the risk of transmission with strict clinical protocols in place. It 
  is all about understanding the Ebola virus, the community infrastructure and 
  the culture and context in which we are working and collaborating with local 
  and international teams already on the ground. 


There is a real passion among NHS staff to make a contribution. Those that 
  aren’t able to deploy abroad are covering shifts at home.


I take heart from the selflessness of William Pooley, the British nurse who 
  recovered from Ebola, and who this week flew to the US to give blood to help 
  save another doctor’s life. Both of them contracted the disease while 
  working in Sierra Leone. It is hoped the antibodies in Mr Pooley’s blood 
  will help the American victim fight off the virus.


It is that kind of spirit that is uniting the international community in an 
  effort to halt the spread of this terrible disease in West Africa. As 
  volunteers, we will be doing everything we can to help. 







 








Ebola





Health »


Health News »


Features »


Comment »


Editor's Choice »









In Ebola






 


Ebola outbreak in pictures








 


Ebola in Liberia: pictures








 


Ebola explained








 


If Ebola was in the UK we'd cure it, says leading doctor








 


How could Ebola virus travel to the UK?








 













Read more World News





Isil jihadists may have access to chemicals for dirty bombs




 




Former commander of British Army issues warning as it emerges two large 
  stockpiles of shells filled with mustard and sarin gas have not been made 
  secure 






Amal Clooney: Greece has just cause to claim return of Elgin Marbles




 




Amal Clooney, the British lawyer who married George Clooney, says the British 
  Museum should be embarrassed about how the friezes have been split between 
  London and Athens 






America's war on Isil finally gets a name: Operation Inherent Resolve




 




The name was initially dismissed as "just kind of bleh", but US 
  officials seem unable to think of a better name for Isil operation 


Comments






Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'




 


 Video


John Grisham, the Memphis lawyer whose legal thrillers have sold millions of 
  copies worldwide, argues that the law is too harsh on those who have been 
  found guilty of downloading child porn 






John Grisham: men who watch child porn are not all paedophiles




 




As best-selling novelist John Grisham prepares to publish his new legal 
  thriller, he argues America's prison system has run out of control 






Probe sends ‘space selfie’ ahead of comet touchdown




 




Some 300 million miles from Earth, stunning images show comet firing off a 
  stream of gas as Rosetta mission prepares to launch first comet landing 






Republican says 'ugly as sin' Democrat will lose her seat in US congress




 




Attack on New Hampshire congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster triggers condemnation 
  from female politicians 






Steenkamp relatives describe how Pistorius shooting 'ruined' family




 




Reeva Steenkamp's loved ones give emotional testimony at court, recounting 
  childhood memories and details of how her shooting by Oscar Pistorius 
  affected the "very, very close family" 






Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin




 


 Video


Steenkamps struggle to hold back tears as Reeva's cousin tells court how Oscar 
  Pistorius has "ruined" their family 






'Putin's tiger attacks henhouse in China'




 




Siberian tiger released into the wild by Vladimir Putin at risk from hunters 
  after it attacks henhouse in China 









Advertisement












How we moderate

telegraphuk


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus









Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'








 


Nasa astronauts' close encounter








 


Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin








 


Evolution of the iPad in 90 seconds








 


Man Booker Prize winner in 60 seconds








 


Ebola halloween 'costumes' causing controversy in US



 








More from the web









            Loading
        































Advertisement











More from the web 










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Business Health Insurance 




 




						10 ways to improve your posture at the office



						View







 
				Barnebys Auction




 




						At auction: Leslie Hindman and the best job in the world



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































