Why Africans are welcoming – but wary of – untested Ebola drug - CSMonitor.comWhy Africans are welcoming – but wary of – untested Ebola drug - CSMonitor.com

 




 


 
 

















DC Decoder
Security Watch

 
































World





All World


Africa

Africa Monitor


Americas

Latin America Monitor


Asia Pacific
Asia: South & Central
Europe
Middle East

Olive Press






People Making a Difference

Change Agent
Latest News Wires


Progress Watch
Security Watch

Terrorism & Security
Backchannels
Reality Check
Under the Radar
Security Voices
Cyber Conflict Monitor






Global News Blog
Global Issues
Latest News Wires
Specials

Africa's AIDS Orphans
Little Bill Clinton
Hostage The Jill Carroll Story
Difference Maker


World Topics



 


USA





All USA


Politics

The Vote
The Monitor Breakfast
Play Gaffe Dodger the presidential election game
Latest News Wires


DC Decoder

Decoder Buzz
Decoder Voices
You Asked






Education
Elections

President
House
Senate
Governors
Vox News
From the Wires
Tea Party Tally
Election Topics


Foreign Policy




Justice
Military
Society
Sports
USA Update
Latest News Wires
Specials

Patchwork-Nation


USA Topics



 


Commentary





All Commentary


The Monitor's View
Readers Respond
Global Newsstand
Upfront Blog

Monitor Political Cartoons
Specials

100 years of Monitor journalism


Commentary Topics







 


Business





All Business


The Bite
Tax VOX
The New Economy
Saving Money
In Gear
Paper Economy
Robert Reich
Latest News Wires
Business Topics




Guide to Giving

America's Top 50 charities: How well do they rate?
America's Top 50 charities in 2013 ranked by total income







 


Energy / Environment





All Energy / Environment


Alternative Energy
Global Warming
Energy Voices
Habitat / Wildlife
Latest News Wires
Energy/Environment Topics







 


Innovation





All Innovation


Tech
Tech Culture
Responsible Tech
Pioneers
Horizons
Energy
Latest News Wires
Innovation Topics







 


Science





All Science


Science Topics







 


Culture





All Culture


Arts
Music
Movies

Monitor Movie Guide


TV
Poetry
Verbal Energy
The Home Forum
Culture Cafe




Family

Modern Parenthood


Food

Stir It Up!
Recipe Categories


Gardening

Diggin' It


Religion
Articles on Christian Science
Latest News Wires





 


Books





All Books


Book Reviews
Chapter & Verse
Readers' Picks
Latest News Wires







 


Take Action





All Take Action


Environment
Education
Conflict Resolution
Disaster Relief and Recovery
Human Trafficking







 




4 Free Issues




Subscribe
Give a Gift
Manage Account
Daily News Briefing


 
























 World
Africa






Why Africans are welcoming – but wary of – untested Ebola drug






Editors' Picks








4 Free Issues


 

Email


More


























			Cardinals vs. Giants in NLCS: What history tells us (+video)
		















			Robot snake slithers like a sidewinder, the 'ultimate all-terrain vehicle' (+video)
		















			Why online king Amazon wants to open an actual store 
		













 Backchannels
 

			Obama's Iraq-Syria strategy, way back in June 2014 ... and now
		






 


Even as death toll tops 1,000, experts caution the rollout should be handled with caution and sensitivity on a continent with a history of being on the receiving end of 'experimental' Western medicines.


By
Ryan Lenora Brown, Correspondent

August 12, 2014 












A health worker cleans his hands with chlorinated water before entering a Ebola screening tent, at the Kenema Government Hospital situated in the Eastern Province around 186 miles from the capital city of Freetown in Kenema, Sierra Leone, Monday, Aug. 11, 2014. Over the decades, Ebola cases have been confirmed in 10 African countries, including Congo where the disease was first reported in 1976. But until this year, Ebola had never come to West Africa. 




 Michael Duff/AP View Caption 







Johannesburg — For more than a week since two American patients responded well to an experimental Ebola medicine, one question has echoed around the world: Should more of the sick have access to such treatments?As the death toll from the epidemic soared above 1,000, the World Health Organization responded Tuesday with a conditional “yes.” And the government of Liberia said it would soon receive a small quantity of the drug, which has never been tested clinically on humans, to treat two ailing doctors there. But despite the ruling by the WHO that it is “ethical to offer unproven interventions” to Ebola patients in carefully monitored contexts, both the organization and regional public health experts caution that any rollout of unknown drugs should be treated with caution and cultural sensitivity. This is particularly acute on a continent with a history of being on the receiving end of “experimental” Western medicines. 
					Recommended: 		
							Think you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.
“We can’t say for certain that these drugs are making people better, or what the medium to long-term complications might be — nevertheless we do need them,” says Dr. Clement Adebamowo, chairman of the National Health Research Ethics Committee of Nigeria. “But we also need to make sure people understand what they are taking. A low level of Western education in a community does not mean that individuals are unable to make rational decisions on the basis of information presented to them — but it means researchers have a very high level of responsibility to provide information in a way people can understand.”


Test your knowledgeThink you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.





Photos of the Day
			Photos of the weekend
		

African public health experts like Dr. Adebamowo, also a professor of public health at the University of Maryland, know better than almost anyone both the dangers and potential rewards of bringing experimental drugs to the frontline of deadly disease epidemics on the continent.In 1996, for example, pharmaceutical giant Pfizer began a trial of its meningitis drug, Trovan, on children in northern Nigeria, then in the midst of severe outbreak of the disease. Eleven of the 200 children who participated in the trial subsequently died, and their families alleged they had never been told they were participating in a drug trial. The study’s supposed approval from a Nigerian medical ethics body was later found to be falsified. (The company denied wrongdoing, but eventually settled for $75 million with the regional government and made large payouts to families of victims.)“Even in times of emergency, people must be made to understand that [untested drugs] are an experiment,” says Dr. Morenike Ukpong, an expert on medical ethics and research protocols at Nigeria’s Obafemi Awolowo University.Better gatekeeping in AfricaMany African countries, however, have significantly strengthened their pharmaceutical gatekeeping in response to scandals like the Pfizer trial, as well as through their experiences managing studies of frontline HIV/AIDS drugs, Dr. Adebamowo says.“There’s been concern that the countries affected may not have the ability to handle these experimental treatments, which I think is an unfortunate case of seeing Africa as a homogenous and weak entity,” he says. While health care systems in the hardest-hit countries are generally under-resourced, “there are health facilities in all of them where these treatments could be dispensed and people treated,” he notes.Dr. Ukpong says that companies like San Diego-based Mapp Pharmaceuticals, which manufactures ZMapp, the experimental Ebola treatment, have an ethical responsibility to make sure that if Africans risk taking an experimental drug now, they must also be beneficiaries later, once more thorough testing is completed.“You don’t want it to be the case that a company comes into a country, does a study, and then when the drug is actually marketed it’s too expensive for people in the same country to afford it,” she says.But for now, she points out, the region has few other options than to proceed carefully with unknown drugs like ZMapp, if and when they become available in larger quantities.“The healthcare system isn’t offering anything better,” she says. “[Without this drug] the chance of death is higher than life.”(This story was altered after posting to change a paraphrase in the tenth paragraph).







Related Stories










Test your knowledge
Think you know Africa? Take our geography quiz.



 




			Doctors defend decision to not give experimental Ebola drug to Sierra Leone patient
		







			Ebola a 'shared' African problem, yet nations look to their own needs (+video)
		








Share this story:




More
Email
Print



















About these ads



Popular Now










			China cashes in on Russia's shrinking economic options (+video)
		















			Michelle Obama viral turnip video: Will it sell healthy food?
		















			NASA's MAVEN: First results from mission to Mars dazzle scientists (+video)
		















			Woman uses hidden camera to expose life under Islamic State (+video)
		















			Snapchat leak: Why you shouldn't look at these images (+video)
		








 

 


 











Could you pass a US citizenship test? Find out.



View Gallery







 







4 Free issues Subscribe








About these ads








Make a Difference
Inspired? Here are some ways to make a difference on this issue.

TAKE ACTION






Follow Stories Like This
Get the Monitor stories you care about delivered to your inbox.













 
 






About these ads
 




				We want to hear, did we miss an angle we should have covered? Should we come back to this topic?
				Or just give us a rating for this story. We want to hear from you.
			


Your name:



Your e-mail address:




Your comment:




Loading...


Loading...


Loading...















 









Global Galleries






			Photos of the day 10/14
		






Editors' picks






			Cuba to the rescue: Ebola-stricken countries welcome Castro's doctors
		






Doing Good




 Difference Maker



			Libby Weir turned her 'passion' for Africa into a life of service
		






Energy Voices






			How to spread power to 600 million Africans without it
		






Modern Parenthood






			PSAT test time: Time for teens to tweet and parents to tune in
		






Justice






			Gay marriage confusion: Where is it legal now? What states are next?
		






Modern Parenthood






			'American Ninja Warrior': Mom edition
		






Sports






			How much do you know about the Kansas City Royals? Take our quiz
		






Book Reviews






			'The Innovators' traces the history of the computer and its creators
		






Science






			Scientists design a slithering snake robot. Why? (+video)
		






Culture Cafe






			'Dracula Untold': Critics aren't won over by the vampire reboot
		






Business






			Why online king Amazon wants to open an actual store 
		






Chapter & Verse






			Nobel controversy: Are writers hurt by financial support?
		






Science






			Scientists in Petrified Forest discover ancient village. Who lived there?
		









































Stay Current. Go Far.Discover the Monitor Difference





About
Contact Us
Subscribe
E-Readers
Advertise With Us
Careers
Find us online


Content Map
Text
Multimedia
Corrections
Articles on Christian Science





© The Christian Science Monitor. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy.

























 














































