Ebola could strike 20,000 in six weeks, "rumble on for years" - studyEbola could strike 20,000 in six weeks, "rumble on for years" - study
















We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy.


























Thomson Reuters Foundation








 LOGIN|SUBSCRIBE


						DONATE

					
















News
Trustlaw
Excellence in Journalism
Services
Jobs Market
About Us

View full desktop version
















Ebola patient at Emory University Hospital says he's recovering
Tropical Storm Ana close to hurricane status as it nears Hawaii
EPA approval of Dow herbicide violates law, critics charge
Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold
U.S. hits targets around Kobani for humanitarian purposes -Allen





FIND US ON




























								
									U.S. Supreme Court blocks Texas abortion restrictions

								
							









									
										Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold

									
								









									
										Ethiopia's fast-growing capital aims to become greener and cleaner

									
								









									
										Freak Nepal blizzards kill at least 20, including hikers, ...

									
								









									
										Syrian Kurds indicating targets as U.S. steps up Kobani strikes

									
								









									
										Economists urge Modi not to squeeze job scheme for rural poor

									
								









									
										Female students beaten, abused by Sudan security-rights group

									
								









									
										UN refugee chief says EU should let in more Syrian refugees

									
								









									
										Sri Lanka bans foreigners from old war zone amid UN probe

									
								









									
										Libyan army, residents battle Islamist militants in Benghazi

									
								









									
										Bomb training vital as Kurds retake Islamic State ground in Iraq

									
								









									
										Can the world produce enough food for 2 bln more people?

									
								









									
										Houthi rebels take over Yemen's Hodeidah port -residents

									
								









									
										Brazil election candidates spar over corruption, nepotism

									
								









									
										Global climate deal should be legally binding in parts: US

									
								









									
										Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding

									
								









									
										Nigerians demand release of 200 kidnapped schoolgirls

									
								









									
										WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa

									
								









									
										Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola

									
								









									
										Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response

									
								









									
										Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest 

									
								









									
										Away from Kobani, Syria's other civil war rages on

									
								









									
										I’ve rarely been so terrified 

									
								









									
										WHO may declare Nigeria and Senegal Ebola-free within days

									
								









									
										Investigative journalism's "golden age" faces surveillance threat

									
								









									
										UK firms must report efforts to end slavery in supply chains 

									
								










Ebola could strike 20,000 in six weeks, "rumble on for years" - study
Source: Reuters - Tue, 23 Sep 2014 04:01 GMT

Author: Reuters












								More on:

																							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    	Health and Disease
							    							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    
						    

A school official takes a pupil's temperature using an infrared digital laser thermometer in front of the school premises, at the resumption of private schools, in Lagos, Nigeria, September 22, 2014. REUTERS/Akintunde Akinleye




















By Stephanie Nebehay and Tom Miles
GENEVA, Sept 23 (Reuters) - The Ebola outbreak in West Africa could infect 20,000 people as soon as early November unless rigorous infection control measures are implemented, and might "rumble on" for years in a holding pattern, researchers said on Tuesday.
In an article in the New England Journal of Medicine, experts from the World Health Organization and Imperial College said that infections will continue climbing exponentially unless patients are isolated, contacts traced and communities enlisted.
The WHO, in an initial roadmap issued on Aug 28, predicted that the virus could strike 20,000 people within the next nine months. The current death toll is at least 2,811 out of 5,864 cases, the U.N. agency says.
The latest study, marking six months from March 23, when the WHO says it was informed of the Ebola outbreak in southeastern Guinea, reflects projections based on the data from a third wave of the virus in Guinea, Sierra Leone and worst-hit Liberia.
"With exponential growth, you'll see that the case numbers per week go up so that by the second of November, over these three countries our best estimate is over 20,000 cases, confirmed and suspected cases," Dr. Christopher Dye, the WHO director of strategy, and co-author of article, told a briefing.
Nearly 10,000 of those would be in Liberia, 5,000 in Sierra Leone and nearly 6,000 in Guinea, he said. But those numbers would only come about with no enhanced infection control.
"Everyone is certainly working very hard to make sure this is a not the reality that we will be seeing," Dye said. "I will be surprised if we hit 20,000 by then," he later added.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said last week that under a $1 billion plan, he will create a special mission to combat the disease and deployed staff to the region.
"If control is completely successful in the way that we know it can be, then Ebola will disappear from the human population of West Africa and probably return to its animal reservoir," Dye said, noting that fruit bats were probably the reservoir.
But if control efforts are only partly successful, Ebola viral disease in the human population could become "a permanent feature of life in West Africa", Dye said.
"The alternative possibility that we're talking about is that the epidemic simply rumbles on as it has for the last few months for the next few years, on the order of years, rather than months.
"Under those circumstances, the fear is that Ebola will be more or less a permanent feature of the human population. Of course it could be extinguished later on."
In the three hardest-hit countries there was a "mixed pattern", Dye said.
"We see for example in the border areas of Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia, some areas where there has been no increase in cases for some weeks now. That's true in Sierra Leone, it's true in Lofa in northern Liberia, and it's true in one of the provinces of Guinea.
"So the question that arises is whether we're actually seeing the beginning of a stationary pattern in this epidemic.
In two badly affected districts of Sierra Leone, Kenema and Kailahun, close to border areas with Guinea and Liberia, there has been a stationary pattern, he said.
"What we've seen in the past weeks there, maybe eight, nine, 10 weeks now, is a pattern of incidence, numbers of cases per week, which has not significantly changed.
"And indeed there are signs that it's going down. And I say that cautiously, because we're prepared to be surprised again. That is what I mean by stationary pattern. A steady incidence week on week."
There are other reassuring signs about the efficacy of infection control measures, he said, but whether the disease's spread was stabilising would become clear in the next few weeks.
No new cases have been recorded in either Nigeria or Senegal in the last three weeks, corresponding to the 21-day incubation period for developing the virulent virus, whose symptoms include fever, vomiting and diarrhoea.
"It is reassuring in many ways that a disease like Ebola can enter a city of 20 million, namely Lagos, and we are able to stop transmission, or rather the people of Nigeria are able to stop transmission," Dye said.
But the Liberian capital Monrovia, where the disease has recently spread fastest, was "uncharted territory", he said.
"Quite honestly if you ask 'can we stamp Ebola out of Liberia?' I'm not sure. In principle we know how to do it, but can we do it on the ground? It remains to be seen." (Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay and Tom Miles; Editing by Larry King)








We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




























										
										Ebola outbreak in West Africa

















SPOTLIGHT: Ebola outbreak in West Africa





Europe urged to end plight of 600,000 ghost people





FACTBOX: How does one end up stateless in Europe?





SPOTLIGHT: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 





Girls at risk as Bangladesh mulls lowering age of marriage







			TOPICAL CONTENT

		









		                			
			                														Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola
										
									
								






		                			
			                														WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa
										
									
								








		LATEST SLIDESHOW

	








5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls




















Nearly one in five adolescent girls is out of school. That’s 65 mln girls worldwide.
Here are 5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls







					FEATURED JOBS

				







	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Spain, France and North Africa

	                


						
												
												
												
												
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 25 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Salary: TBD  | Location:  Spain

					




	                	
	                	Climate Resilience Editor/Project Manager

	                


						
												
												
												
												
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 01 November 2014  | Job type: Contract  | Salary: TBD

					




	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Latin America 

	                


						
												
												
												
						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 31 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Location:  Argentina

					


































Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy


Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility



RSS
Newsletters
Turn off mobile site switching







Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation





Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility










View full desktop version


Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
























