Cuba's Ebola aid latest example of 'medical diplomacy' | MENAFN.COMCuba's Ebola aid latest example of 'medical diplomacy' | MENAFN.COM
	Cuba's Ebola aid latest example of 'medical diplomacy' - MENAFN.com














  






















Home









News by Industry









News By Country









News from Marketwatch 








MENAFN News 










 Equity Markets     
                







Market Indices









Quotes & Charts



















FX & Money Markets









Commodities









Oil & Energy








Market Data 









Premium Research









Regional Research








Research 











Weather










Travel









Events









Portfolio Tracker









Real Estate









Calculators









Investment Game









Voting









Financial Glossary









Economic Calendar








Tools 
Cart
 










 









 


My MENAFN

Currencies


Weather





Corporate Monitor

RSS XML














  Quotes: 

US

MENA
  Enter Symbol:


NewsLetter: 


Search: 









advanced






















 



















Cuba's Ebola aid latest example of 'medical diplomacy'  

                                            MENAFN - AFP
                                                      -  14/09/2014
                                        












 



No. of Ratings : 0














        


 






















  E-Mail Article






  Printer-Friendly





  Translate







 Share Article










  


 Text Size








 



















(MENAFN - AFP) Cuba's pledge to deploy a 165-strong army of doctors and nurses to help fight the Ebola outbreak is the latest example of the Communist country's decades-old tradition of "medical diplomacy."Since 1960, when Cuba dispatched a team of doctors to help with the aftermath of an earthquake in Chile, the Caribbean island has sent more than 135,000 medical staff to all corners of the globe.The latest batch being sent to help in west Africa's Ebola crisis are part of a 50,000-strong foreign legion of Cuban doctors and healthcare workers spread across 66 countries in Latin America, Asia and Africa, according to Cuba's Health Ministry.Cuban Health Minister Roberto Morales Ojeda told reporters in Geneva on Friday some 62 doctors and 103 nurses were being sent to Sierra Leone to tackle the outbreak.World Health Organization director general Margaret Chan welcomed the Cuban aid, the largest offer of a foreign medical team from a single country during the outbreak."Money and materials are important, but those two things alone cannot stop Ebola virus transmission," said Chan. "Human resources are clearly our most important need."Morales said members of the team had "previously participated in post-catastrophe situations" and had all volunteered for the six-month mission, which begins in early October. - 'Foreign policy cornerstone' -"Medical diplomacy, the collaboration between countries to simultaneously produce health benets and improve relations, has been a cornerstone of Cuban foreign policy since the outset of the revolution fty years ago," said US researcher Julie Feinsilver in a study for Georgetown University."It has helped Cuba garner symbolic capital - goodwill, inuence, and prestige - well beyond what would have been possible for a small, developing country, and it has contributed to making Cuba a player on the world stage," Feinsilver wrote in her study "Fifty Years of Cuba's Medical Diplomacy: From Idealism to Pragmatism"."In recent years, medical diplomacy has been instrumental in providing considerable material capital - aid, credit, and trade - to keep the revolution aoat."Cuba's medical diplomacy accelerated after the devastation wrought by Hurricanes George and Mitch across the Caribbean in 1998. In the aftermath of the disaster, Cuba sent some 25,000 doctors and health workers to 32 nations in the region.In 2004, former President Fidel Castro and late Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez launched "Mission Miracle," a program offering free eye surgery that has benefited some 2.8 million people across 35 countries, according to Cuban official sources.- Earthquake assistance -At the same time, Cuba's "medical brigades" have helped victims from devastating earthquakes in numerous countries including Algeria, Mexico, Armenia and Pakistan.Cuba has also trained several thousand doctors and nurses from no fewer than 121 developing nations.The biggest deployment has seen 30,000 Cuban health professionals sent to oil-rich Venezuela, a key regional ally.In Brazil, meanwhile, some 11,456 Cubans are working in hard-hit areas suffering from staffing shortages.Together with educational and sporting services, the export of medical professionals is worth around 10 billion annually to Cuba, making it the most important source of income for the island, outstripping money earned from foreign remittances and exports of nickel.Yet while the qualifications and dedication of Cuba's foreign legion are regularly lauded by countries benefiting from their services and organizations such as the WHO, they are not always viewed so positively by local health workers.Trade unions and some politicians in Peru, Brazil, Ecuador, Bolivia, Uruguay and Honduras have criticized the "army in white coats" sent by Cuba.At the same time, Havana has also been criticized for withholding too big a chunk of the salaries of workers employed overseas.Despite the thousands of health workers abroad, Cuba's domestic healthcare remains one of the best staffed networks in the world, with 82,065 doctors, one for every 137 people, according to the National Statistics Office.



  


















Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.











&nbsp MENA News Headlines





 Oct 15 2014 - SAARC Energy Ministers Meeting Starts Tomorrow in Delhi, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  The Fifth Meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Energy Ministers opens here Thursday.
	The two-day meeting aims to strengthen energy co-operation  ... Oct 15 2014 - Kuwait Stock Exchange Ends Wednesday Session in Red, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  The Kuwait Stock Exchange (KSE) fell 39.27 at the close of Wednesday's session.
	The price index 
reached 7541.56, down by 39.27 points while the KSX 15 index amounted to 198.78, down  ... Oct 15 2014 - QNA, Kyrgyzstan's Kabar Sign Media Exchange Agreement, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  Qatar News Agency  and Kyrgyz National News Agency (Kabar) on Wednesday signed an agreement that will see them exchange news and photos as well as visits and train editors.
	QNA  ... Oct 15 2014 - Indian Air Force Moves 79 Tonnes of Aid for Cyclone Victims, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  Indian Air Force (IAF) has transported 79 tonnes of relief material for victims of Cyclone Hudud in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh state, the Press Information Bureau (PIB)  ... Oct 15 2014 - Labor Minister Meets U.K. State Minister for Middle East, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  HE Minister of Labor and Social Affairs Abdullah Saleh Mubarak Al Khulaifi met Wednesday with U.K. Foreign Office Minister for Middle East Tobias Ellwood.
	During the meeting, the two  ... Oct 15 2014 - Qatari Cabinet Holds Weekly Meeting, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  HE Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al-Thani chaired Wednesday the cabinet meeting that was held at the Emiri Diwan.
	After the meeting,  ... Oct 15 2014 - HH the Emir Appoints Ambassador to the U.K. /Local Press/, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - QNA)  HH the Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani on Wednesday issued Emiri Decision No. 78 of 2014 appointing Mr. Yousef Ali Yousef Al-Khater as an ambassador extraordinary and  ... Oct 15 2014 - S. Korea's Jobless Rate Inches Down to 3.22, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - Qatar News Agency) Seoul October 15 (QNA) - South Korea's jobless rate inched down in September from a month earlier but the pace of job creation slowed to a three-month low a government  ... Oct 15 2014 - S. Korea's BOK Seen Cutting Rate to 22 in October, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - Qatar News Agency) Seoul October 15 (QNA) - South Korea's central bank lowered the base rate Wednesday to 2% this month to give a much-needed boost to the government's stimulus initiative  ... Oct 15 2014 - Qatar Cinema and Film Distribution Reports QR 7.6 Million Net Profit, Qatar News Agency(MENAFN - Qatar News Agency) Doha October 15 (QNA) - Qatar Cinema and Film Distribution disclosed the interim financial statements for the period ending September 30 2014.  The interim financial  ...more...













 



















 






















Most popular stories







24 Hours
|
7 Days
|
30 Days



















Track Flight Status & more at www.flightstats.com



 





 




















 












 








 
		 


 




MENAFN News
Market Data
Countries
Tools
Section
 


 



Arabic MENAFN

Main News

News By Industry

News By Country


IPO News

Islamic Finance News

Private Equity News


How-To 
	Guides
	Technology 
	    Section

Travel Section



Search News 
		 

Market Indices

Quotes & Charts
Global Indices

Arab Indices

US Markets Details
Commodoties
Oil & Energy
Currencies Cross Rates

Currencies Updates

Currency Converter

USA Stocks
Arab Stocks 


Algeria 
	





Bahrain 
	


Egypt 
	





Iraq


Jordan 
	


Kuwait 
	





Lebanon


Morocco 
	


Oman 
	


Palestine


Qatar 
	


Saudi Arabia 
	





Syria


Tunisia 
	





UAE 
	


Yemen

Weather

Investment Game

Economic Calendar
Financial Glossary



My MENAFN

Portfolio Tracker 


Voting



Financial Calculators


RSS Feeds [XML]


Corporate Monitor


Events


Real Estate

Submit Your Property 
	 

Arab Research

Buy a Research


Press Releases

Submit your PR


Join Newsletters  





 






© 2000 menafn.com All Rights Reserved. 

Terms of Service | Privacy 
Policy | Contact Us | Advertise 
|  About MENAFN | Career 
Opportunities | Feedback | Help
 




