The Plague | John FefferThe Plague | John Feffer
















		View mobile site	



 

















































October 15, 2014

Huffpost WorldPost






		Edition: U.S.

Show/Hide





Brasil BR




Canada CA




Deutschland DE




España ES




France FR




Italia IT




日本 (Japan) JP




한국 (Korea) KR




Maghreb MG




United Kingdom UK




United States US










 




Follow





Newsletters





Get WorldPostNewsletters
Email address

Enter Email Address









Huffington Post Search





Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search






























iOS app
Android app
More








 Log in
Create Account





Notifications


0














$USERNAME




Profile


Settings


                                                Logout                                            

















FRONT PAGE


Politics








Supreme Court Stops Parts Of Texas Abortion Law
386




Doug Butzier, U.S. Senate Candidate, Killed In Plane Crash
27




DSCC Stops Running Ads In Kentucky Senate Race
495




Missouri Official Apparently Calls For Military Coup Against Obama
0




Obama Cancels Trip To Hold Cabinet Meeting On Ebola
0




Go to Politics




More in Politics

Pollster
Politics Blog
Off The Bus
Election Maps
Pollster



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Green
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Gay Voices







Business








Teens Love Brandy Melville, A Fashion Brand That Sells Only One Tiny Size
208




Key Inequality Measure The Highest Since The Great Depression
605




Toyota Issues Recall For 1.67 Million Vehicles
15




Two-Thirds Of America's Biggest Retailers Are Worried About Flat Wages
269




Jimmy John's Makes Low-Wage Workers Sign 'Oppressive' Noncompete Agreements
280




Go to Business




More in Business

Small Biz
Money



You Might Also Like

WorldPost
Tech
Media
Arts
Sports
Weird News
Smarter Ideas
Urban Progress







Media








NBC Journalist Issues Statement After Reportedly Breaking Quarantine
651




MSNBC May Cancel 'Ronan Farrow Daily'
143




Chuck Todd Defends Grimes 'Disqualified' Critique, But Says It's 'Cheap' To Use In TV Ad
149




New York Times Reporter James Risen Finds ‘Crazy Is The New Normal' In War On Terror
0




Islamic State Releases 4th Video Of British Journalist
21




Go to Media




More in Media

Eat The Press
Calderone: The Backstory



You Might Also Like

Entertainment
TV
Comedy
Arts
Books
Religion
Moviefone







Green








Huge Earthquake Could Hit San Francisco Any Day
7




With Their Mark On Earth, Humans May Name Era, Too
13




Squids Takes On Submarine In Terrifying Video
0




Another Big Storm Headed To Hawaii's Big Island
0




The Planet Just Had Its Warmest September On Record
492




Go to Green




More in Green

Energy
Climate Change
Animals
Green Tech
Green Holiday



You Might Also Like

Politics
Food
WorldPost
Science
Healthy Living







Tech








Mark Zuckerberg And Wife Donate $25 Million To Fight Ebola
131




HBO To Launch Standalone Streaming Service Next Year
0




How Apple Gets You To Buy New iPhones Over And Over Again
233




Change Your Dropbox Password Right Now
27




'Bendgate' Didn't Stop The Big iPhone 6 From Selling Like Crazy
70




Go to Tech




More in Tech

TEDWeekends
Social Media



You Might Also Like

Small Biz
Green
Science
NY
SF
Smarter Ideas
TechCrunch
Engadget







Arts








Stripped Down Portraits Expose The Vulnerable Side Of Masculinity
34




Coloring Isn't Just For Kids. It Can Actually Help Adults Combat Stress.
53




Here Is 2,500 Years Worth Of Nudes In Art (NSFW)
2




This Is What The Present And Very Near Future Of Architecture Looks Like
2




This Is The Painting That Saved Bill Murray's Life
1




Go to Arts




More in Arts

Painting
Film
Design
Photography
Theater
Architecture



You Might Also Like

Books
NY
Los Angeles







Travel








America's Snobbiest Cities
140




How They Make 'The Amazing Race'
55




If You're Headed To Mexico, You're Doing Things Right
6




10 College Towns To Visit If You're Not In College
11




This New App Is Like Tinder, But For Hotels
3




Go to Travel




More in Travel

Travel Video
Destinations
Themed Guides
TSA
Airlines



You Might Also Like

Food
Arts
World
GPS for the Soul
Recipes







Women








This Comic Perfectly Captures How Feminism Helps Everyone
323




The Night Facebook Suggested I 'Might Know' My Rapist
39




Sarah Silverman's Equal Pay Video Faces Backlash
31




Kristen Stewart Thinks It's 'Ridiculous' To 'Say You're Not A Feminist'
64




How Internet Dating Has Become Ruthless
15




Go to Women




More in Women

Love & Sex
Career & Money
Women's Health



You Might Also Like

Style
Weddings
Divorce
Parents
Healthy Living
Black Voices
Latino Voices







Religion








Conservative Catholics Strike Back Against Welcoming Gays
325




Atheist Wins $2 Million Settlement Over Faith-Based Rehab Program
0




Dramatic Shift Towards Gays Proposed At Vatican
691




Catholics React To 'Revolutionary' Vatican Document
109




What Exactly Did Hillsong's Brian Houston Know About His Dad's Alleged Sex Abuse?
1




Go to Religion




More in Religion

Buddhism
Christianity
Hinduism
Islam
Judaism



You Might Also Like

Arts
World
Healthy Living
Impact
GPS for the Soul









HuffPost Live







Now
Vatican Backtracks On Gay Comments 






Next
FYC: New York Film Festival






Coming Up
H. Jon Benjamin LIVE






Coming Up
New York Times Reporter James Risen LIVE






Tomorrow
Author John Warley LIVE




Go to Huffpost Live



All Sections






News

Politics
WorldPost
Business
Small Business
Money
Media
Sports
Education
Crime
Weird News
Good News



Entertainment

Entertainment
Celebrity
Comedy
Arts & Culture
Books
TV



Life & Style

Healthy Living
GPS for the Soul
Style
Home
Taste
Weddings
Travel
Parents
Divorce
Huff/Post 50
Marlo Thomas
OWN
Dr. Phil



Tech & Science

Tech
Science
Green
Code



Voices

Women
Black Voices
Latino Voices
Voces (en español)
Gay Voices
Religion
College
Teen
Impact



Local

Chicago
DC
Denver
Detroit
Hawaii
Los Angeles
Miami
New York
San Francisco





Our Mobile Apps:

iOS
Android
HuffPost Live (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (iOS)
GPS For The Soul (Android)










WorldPost


Berggruen Institute on Governance


ChinaFile
























WHO Says There Could Be Up To 10,000 New Ebola Cases Per Week In 2 Months

2014-10-14 08:37:57







Gut-Wrenching Images Show The Brutal Reality Of The Ebola Outbreak In Liberia

2014-10-10 17:11:52







Why A Wisconsin Man Decided To Take On ISIS

2014-10-08 14:19:36







Powerful Quake Strikes Off Coast Of El Salvador

2014-10-14 00:03:10







ISIS May Have Chemical Weapons

2014-10-13 21:01:05







Everything You Need To Know About The Islamic State

2014-10-14 13:55:16







Spanish Ebola Nurse Alerted Hospital Staff 3 Times She Was Feeling Sick

2014-10-08 11:17:00







Indonesia's Erupting Volcano Looks Surreal And Terrifying

2014-10-14 12:10:16







Spanish Nurse With Ebola Worsens

2014-10-09 09:12:00







Brit Who Died In Macedonia Most Likely Did Not Have Ebola

2014-10-10 06:29:00







WHO: Ebola Outbreak In West Africa Still Expanding Geographically

2014-10-14 09:09:00







Kim Jong Un Reappears, Has A Cane Now

2014-10-14 08:43:41







Should Turkey Remain in NATO After the Fall of Kobani?

2014-10-14 11:38:36







WHO: Ebola Is Modern Era's Worst Health Emergency

2014-10-13 07:29:33







Iraqi Girl Escaped ISIS, Tells Of Captivity

2014-10-11 09:49:58




Previous Story
Next Story




















John Feffer
Become a fan
Director, Foreign Policy In Focus





Email













The Plague




        Posted: 
            08/28/2014  8:17 am EDT        


        Updated: 
            08/28/2014  8:59 am EDT        







Anadolu Agency via Getty Images 







Share






Tweet







Email





Comment













tumblr




stumble



reddit

 






















In his novel The Plague, Albert Camus describes how death comes to an ugly French port in Algeria.Thanks to an infestation of rats and the fleas they carry, the bubonic plague descends upon the city in the spring and intensifies during the hot summer. After a short period of denial, the residents panic, then sink into despondency and alcoholism. The port is put under quarantine. Undeterred by the apathy of the population and the danger of exposure, a small number of courageous individuals mobilize to fight the epidemic and eventually beat back the invader.Camus took great care to detail the symptoms of the disease. But for all his medical exactitude, the French writer was not primarily interested in epidemiology. His inspiration was a different kind of infection. The novel is set some time in the 1940s. The plague is Nazism, and those who fight the disease stand in for the heroes of the French Resistance. It is a supremely apt allegory, for did not the Nazis claim that their victims were vermin? Camus surely must have enjoyed reincarnating the German fascists as the lowest of the low: bloodsucking fleas and desperate rats.The twin plagues of Nazism and bubonic plague, except for some isolated cases, are behind us. But now it seems that a different pair of plagues is in our midst.Today's headlines are filled with similar stories of the spread of death and destruction in the Middle East and Africa. American commentators worry that these plagues will burst their borders and somehow spread to these shores. And, as in Camus's novel, these diseases point to something larger, not the imposition of a new malignant system but the breakdown of the existing order.In West Africa, the plague is Ebola, a terrifying fever that ends in massive hemorrhaging. The mortality rate, if untreated, is as high as bubonic plague. But at least with the modern version of the Black Death, treatment brings the mortality rate down to 15 percent. Ebola, by contrast, resists treatment. There are no vaccines for this hemorrhagic fever--though there's promising news out of Canada--and the few treatments that have been used remain highly experimental. Doctors and officials establish quarantines and hope the disease will burn itself out. With airlines shutting down service to the infected region,hampering efforts to deliver medical supplies, the disease continues to rage on.Ebola has so far claimed around 1,500 lives. This is terrible, of course, but it pales in comparison to how many children succumb to diarrhea in Africa. According to a 2010 report, 2,000 African children die every day of a disease that can be prevented through relatively cheap methods: safe water and hygiene. But diarrhea is not a communicable disease in the same sense as the plague or Ebola. And no one in the United States worries that a summit of African leaders or the repatriation of infected patients will spread an epidemic of diarrhea stateside. Ebola monopolizes the headlines because what grabs attention is fear (along with the usual colonial images of Africans as dirty and irresponsible).The panic is, of course, more acute in the areas hardest hit by Ebola. Consider the case of Kandeh Kamara, a brave 21-year-old who volunteered to help fight the disease in Sierra Leone. He was promptly drafted to become a "burial boy" responsible for dealing with the corpses of the infected. "In doing their jobs, the burial boys have been cast out of their communities because of fear that they will bring the virus home with them," writes Adam Nossiter and Ben Solomon in a powerful piece in The New York Times. Talk about thankless tasks. Kandeh Kamara initially received no payment for his work and had to beg for food on the street. He now gets $6 a day and hopes to rent an apartment, though landlords often refuse to lease to the burial boys.Ebola is bad news, but it hasn't generated the same kind of fury as that other fast-spreading scourge, namely the Islamic State (IS). The recent beheading of U.S. journalist James Foley has ratcheted up the outrage of U.S. observers.It's certainly not the first beheading that IS has done. The group specializes in meting out barbarous punishments--decapitation, crucifixion, amputations. But just as Ebola's impact became real for Americans when it infected people "like us"--two U.S. missionaries in Liberia--the United States was prompted to act against IS when it began killing non-Muslims, first the stranded Yazidis and then the abducted journalist.IS has spread quickly, and so has the panic that has accompanied its territorial acquisition. There have been the inevitable analogies to Nazism. But even those who don't invoke Hitler are quick to use Manichean language to describe the IS challenge."We can see evil through the eye slits of the ski mask worn by Foley's killer," writes David Ignatius in a Washington Post commentary entitled The New Battle Against Evil. "But stopping that evil is a harder task."The IS killers are a nasty piece of work, and their ideology is thoroughly malign. But I hesitate to use the language of good and evil. Such moralistic terminology presumes that they, the beheaders, are a Satanic force that can only be exorcised with whatever version of holy water our angelic forces dispense--air strikes, boots on the ground, military aid to the Kurdish peshmerga, efforts in the community to dissuade angry young men from taking the next flight to Mosul.We, on the other hand, are good. We would never behead anyone. Those we execute "deserve" their punishment (though the occasional innocent person might inadvertently fall through the cracks). And the civilian casualties from our military offensives, because we are by definition good, are simply mistakes. After all, we don't publicly celebrate the deaths of Afghan civilians from our drone strikes (45 in 2013 alone) or the deaths of over 400 children in Gaza. But our protestations of innocence are little consolation to the families of the victims.At what point do mistakes aggregate into something evil? At the very least, do they prevent us from claiming the mantle of good? And, of course, it's not just the mistakes that are problematic but also the deliberate policies that, for instance, align Washington with dictators and other murderous actors. U.S. disgust with IS may already have prompted intelligence sharing with the regime in Damascus, though the Obama administration has denied such deals.Camus had some choice words for those who are reluctant to call evil by its name. "Our townsfolk were like everybody else, wrapped up in themselves; in other words they were humanists: they disbelieved in pestilences," he wrote in The Plague. "A pestilence isn't a thing made to man's measure; therefore we tell ourselves that pestilence is a mere bogy of the mind, a bad dream that will pass away. But it doesn't always pass away and, from one bad dream to another, it is men who pass away, and the humanists first of all, because they haven't taken their precautions."Humanists perhaps disbelieve in pestilences. "I used to not believe in evil," confesses Richard Cohen this week in a Washington Post column declaring a "return of evil" with ISIS. Once a liberal humanist, Cohen long ago remade himself into a liberal hawk.I still consider myself a humanist. But my brand of humanism sees pestilence everywhere. Indeed, I tend to see pestilence not only in the acts of individuals but in the structures within which the plague takes root and spreads. And this is where the two plagues intersect, Ebola and IS. They both prosper where the immune system is weak.When it comes to medical infrastructure, Africa definitely has a compromised immune system. The continent has been hit hard by HIV/AIDS (70 percent of those living with HIV are in Africa), cholera (major outbreaks took place recently in Senegal, Zimbabwe, and Sierra Leone), and malaria (an African child dies every minute from this disease). Ebola has spread rapidly because of critical shortages in medical staff and supplies.But the deeper reason is environmental: the clear-cutting of forests that have served as a traditional barrier to pathogens. West Africa has one of the fastest rates of deforestation in the world, losing nearly a million hectares a year. The forests are Africa's natural defenses, and Ebola is a sign that these defenses have been fatally weakened. What used to stay in remote villages now spreads quickly to urban areas.The recent victories of IS in Syria and Iraq, meanwhile, suggest not a breakdown in the environmental system but in the political one. IS is not simply a band of serial killers. They have a distinct ideology and set of political motives. Nor does it matter whether they are operating in a formally dictatorial or democratic environment. IS thrives both where Assad rules with an iron fist and where Saddam is long gone.The common denominator is chaos. IS has ruthlessly expanded in the grey areas beyond the reach of the rule of law. In Syria, it has prospered in regions that already broke loose from the country during the uprising. In Iraq, it took advantage of a paralyzing conflict between Shi'a and Sunni that left the northern reaches of the country tenuously connected to the central government.Local governance, whether it's democratic or authoritarian, serves the same function as the forests of West Africa. Such governance holds society together. When it deteriorates, the very cellular structure breaks down. In Ebola, the cell walls fray and the patient bleeds out. With a virus like IS, the fibers of the social fabric fray and large sections of the country bleed out.There are, of course, many differences between a pestilence like Ebola and a movement like IS. But they are both the result of systemic breakdown. They are opportunistic infections.In both cases there are no magic pills. Even if we come up with an antidote to this version of Ebola, as long as we continue to cut down the forests of Africa, more potent versions will continue to appear and spread. And if we attempt to obliterate IS only with bombs or boots on the ground, it will simply pop up somewhere else where the conditions favor such desperate efforts to create a totalitarian order. Instead we should focus on the conditions that give rise to these phenomena--and our role in helping to perpetuate these conditions.Camus recommended vigilance. Pestilence, he concluded, "bides its time in bedrooms, cellars, trunks, and bookshelves and...perhaps the day would come when, for the bane and the enlightening of men, it would rouse up its rats again and send them forth to die in a happy city." The current plagues have certainly been a bane. Whether they also help to enlighten us remains to be seen.Crossposted with Foreign Policy In Focus




            Follow John Feffer on Twitter:
            www.twitter.com/johnfeffer




More:


Islam


Isil


Ebola


Islamic State


Malaria


Albert Camus


Evil


Sierra Leone


Plague


Bubonic Plague


Nazis


Middle East


Africa


Environment


Iraq


Deforestation


Syria






























 


Click here to view Conversations


Conversations



















Suggested For You









FOLLOW HUFFPOST


Email



Email Address




Options


The Morning Email



WorldPost




                                        Get top stories and blog posts emailed to me each day..
                                      




Facebook



HuffPost



 
WorldPost

 





Twitter




HuffPost

Follow


WorldPost

Follow





Google Plus



HuffPost



WorldPost








RSS



Most Popular on HuffPost


Latest News


WorldPost


All RSS / Feeds





Phone



Available on the App Store


Android App on Google Play


Get it at Blackberry App World
















Afroman Remade Because I Got High to Convey That Weed Won’t Actually Ruin Your Life
 





11 Halloween Costumes for People Who Spend Too Much Time on the Internet
 





Watch a Squirrel Rudely Wake Up a Sleeping Panda
 





Time - Politics










































Search The Huffington Post
Enter Search Terms

Submit Search









Advertise


Log In


Make HuffPost your Home Page


RSS


Careers


FAQ




User Agreement


Privacy


Comment Policy


About Us


About Our Ads


Contact Us




Copyright ©2014 TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc.
"The Huffington Post" is a registered trademark of TheHuffingtonPost.com, Inc. All rights reserved.

Part of HPMG News













 












Use this form to alert a HuffPost editor about a factual or typographical error in this story.
Notify message
* Required



*

*







* What kind of error is this?

Choose an option
Factual or typographical
Comment moderation problem
Rights and permissions
Other







* What is the correction?
0 count


Describe the error here (1,000 character limit)






* Type the words below so we know you are not a cyborg                        







Sign me up for The Morning Email


Thank you!


























 
 

