Know Something About Ebola - BubblewsKnow Something About Ebola - Bubblews










Join today












Sign in








Forgot password?










Learning Center


 









Help


 









About Us


 









Log Out
















Post












Post










Know Something About Ebola 
by sandeep, &mr.sm1990



10 likes
0 comments









Why is this being flagged?


Select a category:
Plagiarism
Offensive
Not written in English
Content is too short
Pornography
Other


Comment




Flag post










Tweet








 


 August 19, 2014



Ebola virus disease (EVD), formerly known as Ebola haemorrhagic fever, is a severe, often fatal illness in humans. Ebola is a rare but deadly virus that causes bleeding inside and outside the body. Four of the five known ebolaviruses cause a severe and often fatal hemorrhagic feverin humans and other primates, known as Ebola virus disease. Ebola is introduced into the human population through close contact with the blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected animals.TRANSMISSION OF EBOLAIn Africa, infection has been documented through the handling of infected chimpanzees, gorillas, fruit bats, monkeys, forest antelope and porcupines found ill or dead or in the rainforest. Other ways to get Ebola include touching contaminated needles or surfaces.You can’t get Ebola from air, water, or food. A person who has Ebola but has no symptoms can’t spread the disease, either.SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS OF EBOLAEarly on, Ebola can feel like the flu or other illnesses. Symptoms show up 2 to 21 days after infection and usually include:• High fever• Headache• Joint and muscle aches• Sore throat• Weakness• Stomach pain• Lack of appetitePeople are infectious as long as their blood and secretions contain the virus. Ebola virus was isolated from semen 61 days after onset of illness in a man who was infected in a laboratory.The incubation period, that is, the time interval from infection with the virus to onset of symptoms, is 2 to 21 days.
DIAGNOSIS:Sometimes it's hard to tell if a person has Ebola from the symptoms alone. Doctors may test to rule out other diseases like cholera ormalaria.Tests of blood and tissues also can diagnose Ebola.If you have Ebola, you’ll be isolated from the public immediately to prevent the spread.Ebola virus infections can be diagnosed definitively in a laboratory through several types of tests:• antibody-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)• antigen detection tests• serum neutralization test• reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay• electron microscopy• virus isolation by cell culture. 









 

Comments



No comments yet.
















 







Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Site Status




© 2014 Bubblews LLC, All rights reserved.













