
	Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Commits $50 Million to Support Emergency Response to Ebola - Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

	Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Commits $50 Million to Support Emergency Response to Ebola - Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation













Bill & Melinda Gates foundation
			



Languages
en





English
en




Deutsch
de




Français
fr




Español
es




中文
zh








		 
		
GO

Expand Search




Who We Are



General Information

Letter from Bill and Melinda Gates
Leadership
History
Foundation Fact Sheet
Financials
Contact Us
Regional Offices



Resources & Media

Annual Letters
Annual Reports
Press Room



Quick Links

Visitor Center
Jobs
Contact Us






What We Do



Global Health

Discovery & Translational Sciences
Enteric and Diarrheal Diseases
HIV
Malaria
Neglected Infectious Diseases
Pneumonia
Tuberculosis



Global Development

Agricultural Development
Emergency Response
Family Planning
Financial Services for the Poor
Global Libraries
Integrated Delivery
Maternal, Neonatal & Child Health
Nutrition
Polio
Vaccine Delivery
Water, Sanitation & Hygiene



U.S. Program

College-Ready Education
Postsecondary Success
Washington State

Global Policy & Advocacy

Tobacco Control
Charitable Sector Support
G20 Report
Vaccine Summit
Regional Offices






How We Work



General Information

How We Make Grants
How We Develop Strategy
Information Sharing Approach
Our Approach to Measurement and Evaluation
Grantseeker FAQ
Grant Opportunities
Grant Seeking Resources
What We Do Not Fund



Resources for Grantees

Our Commitment to Grantees
Grantee Profiles
Grantee & Partner Survey Report
Inside the Gates



Quick Links

Awarded Grants
Contact Us
Program Related Investments









GatesFoundation.org


Impatient Optimists













		Press Releases and Statements
		
Close





Press Releases and Statements


Speeches

 






		Press Room
	

		Press Releases and Statements
	






Back
	

Print

Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Commits $50 Million to Support Emergency Response to Ebola






    	Media Contact
    
    	206-709-3400
    
media@gatesfoundation.org



SEATTLE (September 10, 2014) – The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation today announced that it will commit $50 million to support the scale up of emergency efforts to contain the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and interrupt transmission of the virus. 
The foundation will immediately release flexible funds to United Nations agencies and international organizations involved in the response to enable them and national governments to purchase badly needed supplies and scale up emergency operations in affected countries. In addition, the foundation will work with public and private sector partners to accelerate the development of therapies, vaccines, and diagnostics that could be effective in treating patients and preventing further transmission of the disease. 
“We are working urgently with our partners to identify the most effective ways to help them save lives now and stop transmission of this deadly disease,” said Sue Desmond-Hellmann, CEO of the Gates Foundation. “We also want to accelerate the development of treatments, vaccines and diagnostics that can help end this epidemic and prevent future outbreaks.”
To date, the Gates Foundation has committed more than $10 million of the $50 million to fight the Ebola outbreak, including $5 million to WHO for emergency operations and R&D assessments and $5 million to the U.S. Fund for UNICEF to support efforts in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea to purchase essential medical supplies, coordinate response activities, and provide at-risk communities with life-saving health information. An additional $2 million will also be committed immediately to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to support incident management, treatment, and health care system strengthening.
In August, Nigeria responded to the current crisis by opening an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Lagos, with support from the foundation and the Dangote Foundation. Leveraging expertise and lessons from the national polio program, the EOC has been at the center of an aggressive push by the federal and state governments to contain the spread of the virus, and there is cautious optimism that this prompt action may have helped avert a broader outbreak. 
As additional grants are made, the foundation will provide further details on its funding commitments to on-the-ground operations and to research and development for Ebola drugs, vaccines, and diagnostics.
Note to editors: For more detailed information on the foundation’s announcement, please join us for a 30-minute Twitter Q&A at 9:30 am PT with Sue Desmond-Hellmann, the foundation’s CEO, and Chris Elias, president of global development, using the hashtag #ebolachat. 
About the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Guided by the belief that every life has equal value, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation works to help all people lead healthy, productive lives. In developing countries, it focuses on improving people’s health and giving them the chance to lift themselves out of hunger and extreme poverty. In the United States, it seeks to ensure that all people—especially those with the fewest resources—have access to the opportunities they need to succeed in school and life. Based in Seattle, Washington, the foundation is led by CEO Sue Desmond-Hellmann and Co-chair William H. Gates Sr., under the direction of Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren Buffett.
###




Visit Our Blog







Fact Sheet


Grantseeker FAQ


Letter from Bill & Melinda Gates




Jobs


Press Room


Contact Us





VISITOR CENTER
At the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Visitor Center, you’ll find stories of work that is improving lives, from Seattle to South Africa. Plan Your Visit



440 5th Ave N.,
Seattle, WA 98109
(206) 709-3100  ext.7100
Hours: Tues - Sat
10 a.m. – 5 p.m.
Admission: Free








					© 1999-2014 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. All Rights Reserved.
				

Privacy Policy
Terms of Service



Connect


flickr
		





Facebook
		





Impatient Optimists
		





twitter
		





youtube
		










About the Foundation

            Guided by the belief that every life has equal value, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation aspires 
            to help all people lead healthy, productive lives. We are dedicated to discovering and disseminating 
            innovative approaches to addressing extreme poverty and poor health in developing countries and improving 
            the U.S. education system.  Because our financial resources, while significant, represent a small fraction 
            of what’s needed to address these challenges, we work in partnership with governments, the private sector, 
            and other donors and organizations to achieve the greatest possible impact.
            www.gatesfoundation.org

















