US to deploy up to 3,000 military personnel to fight Ebola in West Africa | Fox NewsUS to deploy up to 3,000 military personnel to fight Ebola in West Africa | Fox News



Search



Sign in to comment!Login


Fox News Home
Watch Live
Trending
Video

Politics

Politics Home
Midterm Elections
Executive
Senate
House of Representatives
Defense
Judiciary
Scandals
Congress To-Do List



U.S.

U.S. Home
Crime
Terrorism
Economy
Immigration
Disasters
Military
Education
Environment
Personal Freedoms
Regions



Opinion

Opinion Home
Todd Starnes
Judith Miller
Juan Williams
KT McFarland
Dr. Keith Ablow
Karl Rove
Ric Grenell



Entertainment

[FOX411] HOME
Celebrity News
Movies
TV
Music
Style
[FOX411] Video



Tech

Tech Home
Gadgets
Google
Social
Military Tech
Smartphones
Video Games
Slideshows



Science

Science Home
Archaeology
Air & Space
Planet Earth
Wild Nature
Natural Science
Dinosaurs
Slideshows



Health

Health Home
Men's Health
Women's Health
Children's Health
Alternative Medicine
Diabetes
Heart Health
Allergies
Nutrition & Fitness



Travel

Travel Home
Slideshows
In 5 Guides



Lifestyle

Lifestyle Home
Auto
Food & Drink
Real Estate
Recipes
Wine with Me



World

World Home
U.N.
Conflicts
Terrorism
Disasters
Global Economy
Environment
Religion
Scandals
Regions



Sports

Sports Home
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Baseball
College Sports
Tennis
Nascar
Golf
More Sports
Stats



On Air

On Air Home
A Healthy You & Carol Alt
America's News HQ
America's Newsroom
Cavuto
Fox Files
Fox & Friends First
Fox & Friends
Fox & Friends Weekend
Fox News Sunday
Geraldo at Large
Greta
Hannity
Happening Now
Huckabee
Justice with Judge Jeanine
#mediabuzz
Outnumbered
Red Eye w/ Gutfeld
Shepard Smith Reporting
Special Report
Specials
Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo
The Cost of Freedom
The Five
The Journal Editorial Report
The Kelly File
The O'Reilly Factor
The Real Story w/ Gretchen Carlson
War Stories



More from Fox News

Fox News
Fox Business
Fox News Latino
Fox News Go
Fox News Radio
Fox Nation
Fox News Insider








Fox News
Fox Business
Fox News Latino
Fox News Go
Fox News Radio
Fox Nation
Fox News Insider







Menu


Home
FoxNews.com
Politics


Search


















					Politics Home



					Midterm Elections



					Executive



					Senate



					House of Representatives



					Defense



					Judiciary



					Scandals






Politics
US to deploy up to 3,000 military personnel to fight Ebola in West Africa


Published September 16, 2014FoxNews.com



Facebook0
Twitter0
livefyre
Email
Print










President Obama is expected to announce Tuesday that he's sending up to 3,000 military personnel to combat the Ebola virus in West Africa.
Obama will announce the stepped-up offensive against the outbreak, which has killed more than 2,200 people in five West African countries, in an appearance at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. ADVERTISEMENTADVERTISEMENT
Administration officials said that the U.S. would help to provide medical and logistical support to overwhelmed local health care systems and to boost the number of beds needed to isolate and treat victims of the epidemic. The Defense Department has asked Congress for nearly $500 million in existing funds to be put toward the effort. The money would otherwise be used to support overseas contingency operations, such as the drawdown of troops in Afghanistan. 
The new initiatives include training as many as 500 health care workers a week; erecting 17 heath care facilities with approximately 100 beds each; setting up a joint command headquartered in Monrovia, Liberia, to coordinate between U.S. and international relief efforts; providing home health care kits to hundreds of thousands of households, including 50,000 that the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) will deliver to Liberia this week; and carrying out a home- and community-based campaign to train local populations on how to handle exposed patients.
The fight against Ebola is considered, in part, a national security issue because the disease threatens fragile governments in Africa and could lead to more safe havens for terrorists. The request falls under the jurisdiction of the Pentagon because the military has the capacity to set up quarantine camps.
Sources told Fox News on Monday that the request is expected to be discussed Tuesday at the Senate Armed Services Committee hearing with Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey. But the sources said they believe the requested amount is a lot to reprogram.
Officials told the Associated Press that it would take about two weeks for U.S. forces to get on the ground. The U.S. effort will include medics and corpsmen for treatment and training, engineers to help erect the treatment facilities and specialists in logistics to assist in patient transportation.
The Obama administration’s decision to enlist the Defense Department in responding to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa has raised concerns that the task is pulling the already-stretched military away from other missions, including vital counter-terrorism operations.
According to a senior military official, Dempsey said at a recent meeting: "The Department of Defense's number one priority is combating Ebola."
However, a Defense Department source told Fox News last week that alarms had been raised about the decision.
“We don’t need to be taking planners away from the CT [counterterrorism] mission, and that is what is going on,” the Defense Department source said.
USAID and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention are already involved.
The death toll in the Ebola outbreak is expected to reach 10,000 before six months from now, and some estimates believe it will reach 500,000 before it’s over. Hardest hit by the outbreak are Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. The virus also has reached Nigeria and Senegal. Ebola is spread through direct contact with the bodily fluids of sick patients, making doctors and nurses especially vulnerable to contracting the virus that has no vaccine or approved treatment.
Four Americans, including three doctors, have been or are being treated for the virus in the U.S. 
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., the senior Republican on the Senate's health committee, said Monday that the U.S. must take the Ebola threat as seriously as it does the Islamic State terrorist group. He added that he would support the Obama administration's request for $30 million for the CDC and $58 million for the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority in an upcoming bill.
“This is an instance where we should be running toward the burning flames with our fireproof suits on," Alexander said in a statement. "This is an emergency. We need to recognize it, and we need to find and work with other countries in the world that recognize it.”
On Monday, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power called for an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Thursday, warning that the potential risk of the virus could "set the countries of West Africa back a generation."
Power said the meeting Thursday would mark a rare occasion when the Security Council, which is responsible for threats to international peace and security, addresses a public health crisis.
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon was expected to brief the council along with World Health Organization chief Dr. Margaret Chan and Dr. David Nabarro, the recently named U.N. coordinator to tackle the disease, as well as representatives from the affected countries.
Fox News' Jennifer Griffin, Justin Fishel, Lucas Tomlinson, and Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.




Advertisement









More on this...







Fears of Ebola virus spreading to US mount as outbreak grows










				    Trending in Politics



1
Military campaign against ISIS gets a name 




2
GOP brass stand by House candidate DeMaio in wake of sexual harassment claims 




3
Pentagon reportedly withheld info about decades-old chem weapons during Iraq War




4
Ebola diagnosis for 2nd Texas hospital worker raising questions over virus battle plan  




5
Obama cancels trip to meet on Ebola outbreak



See all Trends



Advertisement
















America's Election HQ

See the latest updates on the hottest midterm races from Fox News
Full Elections Coverage →





















Fox NewsPolitics


Politics Home
Executive
Senate
House of Representatives
Defense
Judiciary
Scandals
Congress To-Do List




Presidential Approval



Approve
51%


Disapprove
47%

More details →



Congressional Approval



Approve
13%


Disapprove
75%

More details →



FoxNews.com
Back to Top


©2014 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. All market data delayed 20 minutes. Privacy - Terms - FAQ













