New Orleans News | National NewsNew Orleans News | National News



























Ebola deaths reach over 1000 - Trial drug provided to two doctors

Tue, 08/12/2014 12:00 PM




Liberia said on Tuesday that two infected doctors will be treated with ZMapp, the first Africans to receive the scarce experimental Ebola drug. The Ebola death poll has gone up to 1,013 since it was discovered in southeastern Guinea in March. The doses of ZMapp are scarce and ethical questions relating to priority is being raised. A 75 year old Spanish priest died of the disease in Liberia and the government announced that Miguel Pajares, an infected European, will be treated with the drug. It is manufactured by Mapp Biopharmaceutical, California and has been administered to two US aid workers. They are now in a hospital in Atlanta and have shown signs of improvement. This deadly virus has spread to 4 African countries and has infected 1848, causing an international health emergency. 
There has been an ongoing debate about ethical drug trails amidst the crumbing healthcare systems. WHO, a medical ethics committee was supposed to announce its findings and priority issue solutions on Tuesday. The medical staff didn’t have the equipment and training to tackle the first outbreak of Ebola in West Africa and 60 workers died and dozens were infected. Lewis Brown, Information minister, said that Zukunis Ireland and Abraham Borbor, the two doctors, had provided consent for the treatment of the Liberian government. Brown told reporters that the drugs could not be exported without the approval of the FDA, so their authorities got the specific approval. He said that the drugs were expected to reach Liberia within 48 hrs. The Liberian presidency website said that Obama approved the export, but he said that it was incorrect. Mapp Biopharmaceutical said on Monday that the drug supply was exhausted after the West African nation was provided with the doses. 
The Liberian presidency statement said that the head of WHO, Margaret Chan has authorized the dispatch of additional doses to Liberia, but Brown said it is unclear if this is true. WHO said that the epidemic is likely to go on for months and the healthcare systems cope and appeal for funds and emergency medical staff. Ivory Coast banned air travelers from the three countries worst hit by the virus and ordered its flagship courier Air Cote d’lvoire to cease flights. It hasn’t registered any cases but it seems vulnerable as the borders are shared with Guinea and Liberia. Ebola is highly contagious and kills half of those infected. It is believed that fruit bats transferred this virus to humans in Guinea late last year and spilled to neighboring Sierra Leone and Liberia. The virus spread to Nigeria via a passenger from Liberia who collapsed in the Lagos airport in late July and died. The health minister said that Nigeria has 10 confirmed Ebola cases. 






Latest National News





Ebola protocols change
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:22 PMA nurse was infected by an Ebola patient and is now being treated in the same hospital. The government is now concerned about the awareness and the handling techniques that must be used to prevent such cases.  “We have to rethink the way we address...


Turkey bombs Kurdish militants
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:28 PMTurkey will suffer a similar war situation similar to the war against Islamic State militants in Syria and Iraq. It has been reported that the air force had bombed Kurdish fighters furious at Ankara's refusal to help protect their kin in Syria. Last...


Chocolate under pressure because of Ebola
Tue, 10/14/2014 12:04 PMM&M’s, Butterfingers and Snickers Bars use cacao as their raw major ingredients which is highly produced in the Ivory coast. The coast has decided not to share any present relationships and has closed its borders that were shared with Liberia and...


Police seize assets to fund operations
Mon, 10/13/2014 12:17 PMA huge amount of Americans funds have been used by the police in the recent years for buying guns, armored cars and electronic surveillance gear. Also, the money was spent on luxury vehicles, travel and a clown named Sparkles. The details in annual...


Anti protestors attack in Hong Kong
Mon, 10/13/2014 12:10 PMProtest barriers were broken down by hundreds of masked and armed people in the heart of Hong Kong. The protests were opposed by taxi drivers since it affected their business to a large extent. "Open the roads," chanted a crowd, which included taxi and...




More National News 



















Follow us:

facebook
googleplus
linkedin
pinterest
twitter























Wednesday, 15 October 2014

Email
RSS

 













High
76 °F Sunny



Low
57 °F Clear





Right Now

76 °F 

Sunny




Rain
0%


Wind
NW at 12 mph


Humidity
30%






More Weather


 




Home
Blog
Classifieds
Coupons
Yellow Pages


 






Disclaimer

									Some materials contained on this site are protected by copyright and therefore may not be reproduced, 
									distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the express written permission.
								
NewsSides.com © 2014 All Rights Reserved





Our Company

Advertising
Linking
News Sides










