#Ebola: These nations have banned travellers from Ebola-affected countries [DETAILS] - YNaijaYNaija#Ebola: These nations have banned travellers from Ebola-affected countries [DETAILS] - YNaijaYNaija






Home | About Us | Contact Us











 


















Home
News
Opinion
Politics
Entertainment
More

30 days
Around the Web
#BringBackOurGirls
Celebrity
Ebola
Economy
Fashion & Style
Life
Long read
Odd World
Sports
Technology


 




 













Tweet














#Ebola: These nations have banned travellers from Ebola-affected countries [DETAILS]
Posted 2 months  ago










by Kolapo Olapoju
Following the Ebola outbreak in the sub-region of West Africa, some countries have began to ward off travellers from the affected nations from coming in.
One of such nations is Sri Lanka, with its government having decided to suspend the on-arrival visa facility to visitors from four African countries due to the presence of the Ebola virus disease in those countries in varying levels.
Responding to a recommendation from its Health Ministry, Sri-Lanka has with immediate effect suspended visa for Nigeria, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia.
In a similar vein, South Africa’s cabinet has also issued a travel ban to foreigners arriving from Ebola-hit West African countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea.
South Africa’s Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said South Africans coming from Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone or Nigeria would be questioned and medically examined, if necessary.
A spokesman for the country’s health ministry, Jo Maila disclosed that the travel ban would be in place for as long as necessary.
Since the death of the index case in Guinea, the death toll from Ebola virus has reached 1,350, according to World Health Organisation (WHO).



Article Tags:Aaron Motsoaledi · africa · Ebola · Eola virus disease · guinea · Health Ministry · Jo Maila · liberia · nigeria · sierra leone · south africa · Sri LAnka · travel ban · visa · West Africa · world health organisation

Article Categories: Ebola · News








 Recent Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)






  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members






  
No time to waste: Desmond Elliot and Tony Tetuila take baby steps to political office (PHOTOS)






  
Buhari and Atiku are failures | APC will be relevant in 2019 | GEJ is being pressured to contest – Doyin Okupe had a lot to say in new address






  
“Kiss and make up” – President Jonathan urges Perm. secretaries and Ministers to work in harmony






  
Finally, she get’s something wrong: Beyonce’s fans are not happy with new hairstyle






  
Not yet Uhuru: Fred Ajudua still has a case to answer despite High court acquittal









 Related Posts


  
Buhari and Atiku are failures | APC will be relevant in 2019 | GEJ is being pressured to contest – Doyin Okupe had a lot to say in new address







  
“Kiss and make up” – President Jonathan urges Perm. secretaries and Ministers to work in harmony







 Popular Posts


  
So did Lagos’s idea of #HornFreeDay work? We took a drive to find out (WATCH)







  
FEC bids goodbye to seven exiting members







condolence







  
Opinion: Jungle Justice: I am with Aluu Community











Previous Article  Not again! Lebanese man reportedly kidnapped in Nigeria 
Next Article   EFCC nabs man for impersonating NOI’s secretary and ‘jobbing’ a Chinaman




 Comments

















 Pingback: #Ebola: These countries have banned travellers from Ebola-affected countries [DETAILS] - Morenikejis Blog 









Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Google+.





Loading Facebook Comments ...


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Facebook.










 Subscribe to YNaija

Enter your email address to subscribe to YNaija and receive notifications of new posts by email.









 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 














 



                        YNaija © 2014            
        
















            
                                
            Menu Title                
                        
        
Home
Fashion & Style
Entertainment & Lifestyle
Politics & Advocacy
Opinion & Reviews
Life
Rubbin’ Minds
About
Where to Buy Y!
Contact Us
Subscribe
Be A Rep
Merchandise
What is Y!
Advertisers













 























