Ebola outbreak: Canada to donate $2.5M for protective equipment - Health - CBC NewsEbola outbreak: Canada to donate $2.5M for protective equipment - Health - CBC News










Accessibility Links

Skip to main content
Skip to CBC accessibility page





 







CBC Global Navigation


CBC.ca

News
News Menu


Sports
Sports Menu


Music
 


Radio
Radio Menu


TV
TV Menu


My Region Menu
 


More CBC Menu
 


Watch 
Watch Menu


Listen
Listen Menu











 











 














CBC News Health

Major StoriesIn The News




    										In the news
					




Ebola test

 



Copyright law

 



Generic drug costs

 



Ebola outbreak

 






CBC News Navigation
Home
World
Canada
Politics
Business
Health
Arts & Entertainment
Technology & Science
Community
Weather
Video

Health

Rate My Hospital
Photo Galleries








Ebola outbreak: Canada to donate $2.5M for protective equipment

Health Minister Rona Ambrose says equipment will go to WHO

The Canadian Press
Posted: Sep 15, 2014 11:59 PM ET
Last Updated: Sep 16, 2014 7:56 AM ET

 



 
              Health Minister Rona Ambrose announced Canada will send protective equipment in support of the WHO's fight to contain west Africa's Ebola outbreak.   (Chris Wattie/Reuters)            








Related Stories


Worst-ever Ebola outbreak, by the numbers

Ebola outbreak frustrates Ottawa woman trying to help relatives

Ebola claims 4th doctor in Sierra Leone after WHO rejects transport to Germany

Ebola surging beyond control, WHO's Margaret Chan warns

Ebola outbreak a 'war with an enemy that we don't see'

Ebola vaccine developed in Canada may be 1st approved for use

Ebola outbreak: Experts meet to advise WHO on how to use experimental drugs









Canada is donating $2.5 million worth of the specialized medical gear used to protect health-care workers who are treating Ebola patients in West Africa, the federal government announced late Monday.

U.S. to send military personnel, build treatment centres as Ebola response
Ebola surging beyond control, WHO's Margaret Chan warns
Ebola outbreak: War with an enemy we can't see
INTERACTIVE I Tracking the Ebola outbreak

Health Minister Rona Ambrose said the equipment — known as personal protective equipment or PPE — will be given to the World Health Organization to help with the Ebola response.
"We will continue to explore ways for Canada to make a meaningful contribution to the global response," Ambrose said in a news release.
The announcement of additional Canadian assistance comes on the eve of a major address on the Ebola outbreak by U.S. President Barack Obama.
Obama is to outline additional U.S. assistance to the outbreak response on Tuesday when he travels to the U.S. Centers for Disease Prevention and Control in Atlanta.
The Canadian donation is being made from surplus stock current available through the Public Health Agency of Canada's National Emergency Strategic Stockpile and Health Canada's First Nations and Inuit Health Branch.
Canada has offered a range of supplies, but said that the final donation will be based on what the WHO needs.
It has offered 500,000 N95 respirators (like surgical masks, but more protective), 1.5 million sets of examination gloves, 2.1 million face shields, 1.25 million isolation gowns, 3,500 sets of surgical gloves and 50 hooded coverall suites.This photo provided by Dr. Dan Lucey, of the Georgetown University Medical Center, shows a session he supervised to train local health workers how to properly put on and take off equipment to protect against the Ebola virus.   (Dan Lucey/The Associated Press)
"Preventing further transmission of the Ebola virus is essential to controlling the current outbreak and the proper use of personal protective equipment is a key component," Dr. Gregory Taylor, deputy chief public health officer, said in an emailed statement.
"By providing these much-needed supplies, the Government of Canada is enabling health-care workers from the affected region and other WHO response workers to continue to quickly detect and manage this outbreak."
Shortages of equipment
The WHO recently reported that some areas in the Ebola zone were experiencing shortages in the equipment needed to prevent caregivers from becoming infected.
Three countries are experiencing widespread Ebola transmission — Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. There has been a limited spread — so far — to Nigeria and Senegal.
Although it is cumbersome and hot, personal protective equipment is essential to protect the health-care workers treating Ebola patients.
A Canadian doctor who has worked on the Ebola response since late March said having a solid supply of PPE is vital, especially given that global supplies are becoming stretched.
"Having PPE available ... is a very important potential aspect of having other foreign medical teams come onboard," said Dr. Rob Fowler, who works at Toronto's Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre but who has been volunteering with the WHO for the last year.

 © The Canadian Press, 2014 





Report Typo
Send Feedback





Comments on this story are moderated according to our Submission Guidelines. Comments are welcome while open. We reserve the right to close comments at any time.

Submission Policy
Note: The CBC does not necessarily endorse any of the views posted. By submitting your comments, you acknowledge that CBC has the right to reproduce, broadcast and publicize those comments or any part thereof in any manner whatsoever. Please note that comments are moderated and published according to our submission guidelines.







Stay Connected with CBC News



Mobile
Facebook
Podcasts
Twitter
Alerts
Newsletter
















    																		Top News Headlines
										





 
2nd Texas health-care worker with Ebola to be transferred to Atlanta








Police got faxed instructions to locate head of Jun Lin






4 Canadians among a dozen people killed in Nepal blizzard, avalanche


video




Google unveils new Nexus tablet, smartphone






Telus misleads by picking and choosing wireless speed data, critics say 










Must Watch











    																		Latest Health News Headlines
										





 
Ebola outbreak deaths approach 4,500:WHO








Ebola outbreak: 2nd Texas health-care worker to be transferred to Atlanta: CDC

 read

comments




Ebola outbreak: How prepared are Canadian hospitals?

 read

comments




Assisted suicide arguments ‎heard before Supreme Court


video




Ebola outbreak: Dallas nurse took Frontier Airlines flight before becoming ill


video









									Features
			






 Chronic vertigo



Misunderstood and misdiagnosed, the mystery of vertigo

Debilitating chronic dizziness can result from viruses, sports injuries and is difficult to cure










    																		Most Viewed
										




Ebola outbreak: 2nd Texas health-care worker to be transferred to Atlanta: CDC

 



Ebola outbreak: How prepared are Canadian hospitals?

 



Ebola cases to surpass 9,000 this week, WHO says

 



Ebola outbreak: Here's what you need to know

 



Misunderstood and often misdiagnosed, the mystery of vertigo

 



Ebola outbreak: Toronto nurse knows what it's like to treat infectious patients, and to be one

 



Stem cells from human embryos may improve vision 

 



What to know about this year's flu virus

 



Ebola outbreak: U.S. officials launch review of treatment procedures

 



Eye implant may improve ability to see light

 



















																	Don't Miss
								








 ASSISTED SUICIDE

Where do Canada and other countries stand?





 Downsizing

Staring myself down in the gym mirror





 Science research

Why I volunteer my son for science experiments





 BOTTLE VS. TAP

7 things to know about drinking water





 ROB FORD DIAGNOSIS

What is liposarcoma and how is it treated?





 EBOLA

Worst-ever Ebola outbreak, by the numbers





 CANCER

New techniques help curb advanced melanoma





 EBOLA TREATMENTS

Ebola experimental drugs and vaccines in early days of testing





 BREAST CANCER

Mammogram screening debate





 Kelly Crowe

How Big Tobacco skirts Ottawa's ban on flavoured cigarettes














CBC Global Footer


CBC.ca


Aboriginal
Books
Contests
Digital Archives
Documentaries
Kids
Kids' CBC Preschool


Music
News
Parents
Program Guide
Radio
Sports
Television


Subscriptions
CBC Player
CBC Shop



Corporate

About CBC
Transparency and Accountability
Jobs
Production Facilities
Mobile Production Rentals
Ombudsman
CBC: Get the Facts
Independent Producers


Public Appearances
Pitch a Radio or Audio Program
Program and Content Sales
Archive Sales
Educational Sales
Image Research Library & Still Photos
Consumer Recordings
Digital TV




Stay Connected

Mobile
RSS
Podcasts

Member Services:Newsletters & Alerts




CBC Links

Terms Of Use
Reuse & Permissions
Advertise
Privacy

Site Map
Help
Contact Us

CBC Radio-Canada

Copyright © CBC 2014

cbc.radio-canada.ca
cbc.ca
radio-canada.ca



























