The growing economic toll of West Africa's Ebola crisis | Business SpectatorThe growing economic toll of West Africa's Ebola crisis | Business Spectator
Skip to main content




 



 









 










 

 





BS Main menu





Home


Spectators









Alan Kohler
Robert Gottliebsen
Stephen Bartholomeusz
Rob Burgess
Callam Pickering
Peter Cai
Steve Keen
Michael Gawenda
Oliver Marc Hartwich
John Lee
Jackson Hewett
Tristan Edis
Supratim Adhikari
Brett Cole
Ken Phillips
Keith Orchison
Adam Carr
Harrison Polites



Alan KohlerAlan Kohler is one of Australia’s most experienced business commentators. Alan has been a trusted source of investment advice to Australians for many years, and in 2005 he founded Eureka Report - Australia’s #1 online investment report. Along with Robert Gottliebsen and Stephen Bartholomeusz, Alan also founded Business Spectator, the popular business news and commentary website. Alan is the regular finance presenter on the ABC News and producer of the popular nightly graph (or two).












      Stay    



DataRoom









In Dataroom Dealmakers
Debt Capital Markets
Equity Capital Markets
Mergers & Acquisitions
Breakfast Deals



Latest Stories 

 
iProperty selldown complete
3 hours ago Company of Patrick Grove has offloaded 25% of its stake in listed online business iProperty. 

Brickworks in race for Boral division
3 hours ago Brickworks believed to be a prospective buyer of Boral's roof tiles business. 
 



More Dataroom Stories Life insurance sector set for shake up

Lowy family injects $177m into Westfield

Administrator calls for van Eyk liquidation

Chinese snap up 50 dairy farms

More Dataroom »












      Stay    



Economy









In Economy Australian News
Global NewsEuropean Crisis
Global Financial Crisis
US Economy
Asian Economy
China

Commodities
Interest Rates
Tax
Productivity
Leadership
Innovation
Reserve Bank of Australia



Latest Stories 

 
The Harper review sets the right course
11 min ago A genuine emphasis on consumers is a welcome feature of the interim report from the Competition Policy Review panel. 

US economic growth 'moderate': Fed
17 min ago US Federal Reserve's Beige Book finds steady growth in much of the country. 
 



More Economy Stories Has Germany's bubble finally burst?

Copper sees worst day since March

Chinese snap up 50 dairy farms

Infrastructure hub to boost economy

More Economy »












      Stay    



Markets









In Markets ASXASX Indices
Major ASX stocks

Markets Spectator
Currency
ETFs



Latest Stories 

 
Wall Street tumbles on growth fears
17 min ago US stocks pare losses after earlier sinking 2.5%, volatility index shoots to three-year high. 

Aust dollar rises in wild trade
32 min ago Local unit sees gap between high and low of US2c amid intense market volatility. 
 



More Markets Stories European stocks in 3% rout

Greek markets nosedive 9.4%

German two-year borrowing costs sit near record low

Asian markets end mostly stronger

More Markets »












      Stay    



Politics









In Politics Australian Election
Federal Budget
International NewsAsia
Europe
USA

National Affairs



Latest Stories 

 
The Harper review sets the right course
11 min ago A genuine emphasis on consumers is a welcome feature of the interim report from the Competition Policy Review panel. 

Shirtfront comment 'unfortunate': Kremlin
1 hour ago Vladimir Putin's spokesman hopes Aust-Russia can exchange views 'in a more diplomatic way'. 
 



More Politics Stories EU orders Spain to recover illegal state aid

Hong Kong police crackdown escalates

Scottish nationalists choose new chief

Obama hits mid-term campaign trail

More Politics »












      Stay    



Technology









In Technology NBN Buzz
Mobility
BYOD
Smart Devices
Emerging Tech
Applications
Big Data
Cloud Computing
Data Management
Reviews
Social Media
Start-ups
Security
Data Security
Identity Management
Wireless Security
Telecommunication



Latest Stories 

 
The men who want to get rid of banks
24 min ago PayPal's co-founder expects his new start-up to write $US100m of personal loans in 12 months. He's one in an army of entrepreneurs with established bank margins in their sights. 

Board to death: Back to school for our business elite
15 Oct, 10:17 AM Policy leaders and bureaucrats have pretty well skipped tech class for the past 20 years. The digital learning curve is going to be a steep one for a lot of them. 
 



More Technology Stories Augmenting home buying: Technology vs the real estate industry

The Ticker: Modern business life

Start-ups win on share options

PayPal's founders and Bitcoin's 'ridiculous' status

More Technology »












      Stay    



Climate









In Climate Carbon markets
Energy markets
Renewable energy
Resources
Solar energy
Wind power
CleanTech
Science & Environment
Green Deals
Policy & Politics
Smart Energy



Latest Stories 

 
Old utilities know better than Abbott
15 Oct, 1:23 PM Old government utilities such as Ergon Energy and Synergy now believe that small-scale power options - such as solar, batteries and energy efficiency - are superseding the need for grid expansions. New analysis from the IEA shows how big a change they could make.   

Moving beyond denial on carbon capture
15 Oct, 10:32 AM Most of the key players in the climate debate accept the need for carbon capture and storage. But there's no doubt the technology needs government and industry help to drive it forward. 
 



More Climate Stories Paris will have an impact on Labor's prospects for the 2016 carbon debate

How the electricity industry is blocking solar in Australia

Japan utilities repel renewables; UK solar feels pinch

The Ticker: Modern business life

More Climate »












      Stay    



Industries









Advertising and Marketing
Agribusiness
Automotive
Aviation
Construction and Engineering
Education
Family Business
Financial Services
Food and Beverages
Gaming and Racing
Health and Pharmaceuticals
HR
Industrial relations
Information Technology
Infrastructure
Insurance
Manufacturing
Media and Digital
Resources and Energy
Professional Services
Property
Retail
Small Business (SME)
Telecommunications
The Ashes
Tourism
Transport and Logistics













      Stay    



Video









KGB TV
China Spectator
CEO Hub
Leadership Lab
Management Insights
Young Leaders













      Stay    














Global Indices
IndexLastChg% Chg 

DOW JONES16315.19-5.9 
S&P 5001877.70+30.2% 
NASDAQ4227.17+13.50.3% 
FTSE 1006211.64-181-2.8% 




 

 









The growing economic toll of West Africa's Ebola crisis

Callam Pickering

19 Sep, 6:55 AM

2 comments
Economy
Global News
 



 



The Ebola outbreak has killed more than 2,400 people in West Africa since the beginning of the year. Only time will reveal the true human cost of the epidemic -- the number of cases could end up in the “hundreds of thousands” -- but estimates from the World Bank indicate that unless the crisis is swiftly contained, the financial and economic impact will be devastating.A new report from the World Bank assesses the economic impact of the health epidemic under a variety of scenarios. Food shortages and rising prices are already a reality. Rising poverty and unemployment have quickly joined illness and death as a sad but inevitable consequence of a third-world health epidemic.According to the World Bank, an Ebola outbreak effects economic wellbeing through two distinct channels. First, there are the direct and indirect effects of sickness and death, which consume health care resources, reduce the labour supply and hurt productivity.Second, there are behavioural effects associated with people’s fear of contagion. For example, people may choose to stop going to work, while governments might close down airports and other forms of transportation.The first channel is directly affected by the number of people taken ill or who die; the second channel is less sensitive to the number of cases but more sensitive to available information and the perceived threat. Often, it is the behavioural changes that weigh the most on growth.
So far, the three hardest hit countries are Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. Naturally, the estimates discussed below are highly speculative but they highlight the considerable challenge faced by these three countries and the importance of containing the threat as quickly as possible.According to World Bank estimates, the Ebola breakout will shave around 2.1 percentage points from growth in Guinea this year; around 3.4 percentage points from growth in Liberia; and 3.3 percentage points from GDP growth in Sierra Leone.Although output in all three countries will expand in 2014 -- and in Sierra Leone, it will rise rapidly -- the cost of forgone output is estimated at $ US359 million. Those estimates would be much larger if it wasn’t for a rapid expansion of government balance sheets and humanitarian support.Fiscal spending is expected to be around 1.2 per cent of GDP higher in Guinea than would otherwise be the case; 4.7 per cent of GDP higher in Liberia; and 1.8 per cent of GDP higher in Sierra Leone.Further out, the costs of the crisis become increasingly speculative. It will largely come down to whether the epidemic can be contained and whether there is contagion among neighbouring countries.To deal with the uncertainty, the World Bank created two scenarios. A ‘low Ebola’ scenario corresponds to rapid containment within these three countries; a ‘high Ebola’ scenario refers to slower containment and broader regional contagion.Under the ‘high Ebola’ scenario, growth in expected to deteriorate in each country. Sierra Leone and Liberia are hit particularly hard -- owning to a much higher number of infections -- while the impact in Guinea is more muted because of its ongoing containment efforts. The ‘low Ebola’ scenario is included in the graph below.The good news is that although there have been cases of Ebola in other countries such as Nigeria (as of 13 September, 21 cases and 8 deaths) and Senegal (one case and no deaths), the threat has largely been contained. Both these countries have superior health systems (at least compared with Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia) that have been able to withstand and contain the situation.At the same time, the threat persists and the number of Ebola cases continues to rise at an increasing pace. The World Bank believes that its analysis -- combined with the human cost of this crisis -- reinforces the need for humanitarian support and a concerted international response.On Tuesday US President Barack Obama committed more than $175 million and 3,000 troops, noting that Ebola “is a global threat, and it demands a truly global response.”“The reality is this epidemic is going to get worse before it gets better,” Obama said. “But right now the world still has an opportunity to save countless lives. Right now the world has a responsibility to act, to step up, to do more.”The United Nations estimate that tackling the epidemic will cost $600 in humanitarian support. The World Bank argues that the economic benefits of containment warrant spending up to $1 billion.We shouldn’t underestimate the stakes. Beth Bell from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that the number of Ebola cases may rise into the “hundreds of thousands” without swift and effective action.The economic impact of the Ebola epidemic may seem unimportant compared to the human misery caused by the crisis, but in the long-run, economic hardship could prove to be every bit as deadly. By attempting to quantify the cost of the crisis, the World Bank has highlighted the need for swift and decisive intervention to not only save lives in West Africa but prevent contagion across the region. Based on recent comments by President Obama, the world may finally be listening.    



 



 



 


More from Callam Pickering



 
15 Oct
Volatility masks Britain's real inflation 

14 Oct
The market stillness before the storm 

14 Oct
A rocky path to shared prosperity 

13 Oct
Deleveraging isn't over yet 

13 Oct
Budget pain and Senate strife 
 
 



Connect with Callam Pickering on Google+ 


Related articles



 
16 Oct
US economic growth 'moderate': Fed 

16 Oct
Has Germany's bubble finally burst? 

16 Oct
Infrastructure hub to boost economy 

16 Oct
Greek markets nosedive 9.4% 

15 Oct
US producer prices ease in September 
 
 


More from Business Spectator




Technology 

Carbon markets 

Family Business 

Financial Services 






 



 







 
 15 Oct, 2:37 PM  
Business sides with Beijing in Hong Kong
Fergus Ryan
The Australian Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong has ignited debate by warning that pro-democracy protests might be detrimental to business. 

 15 Oct, 2:25 PM  
The Beijing media assault on Hong Kong citizens
John Keane
Beijing's heavy-handed media campaign against the umbrella uprising is living proof that they not only dislike democracy, they fear it. 


 15 Oct, 11:38 AM / 2 comments 
Fears of a Chinese property crash are overblown
Peter Cai
Concern over the Chinese property sector has spread around the globe, though few analysts are seeing the whole picture. 

 15 Oct, 9:00 AM  
The Ticker: Modern business life
Harrison Polites
Our new live blog featuring rolling snippets of analysis, data and insight, all around the theme of modern business in Australia. 
 
More China »

 
 3 hours ago  
iProperty selldown complete
Bridget Carter - The Australian
Company of Patrick Grove has offloaded 25% of its stake in listed online business iProperty. 

 3 hours ago  
Brickworks in race for Boral division
Bridget Carter - The Australian
Brickworks believed to be a prospective buyer of Boral's roof tiles business. 

 4 hours ago  
Life insurance sector set for shake up
Bridget Carter - The Australian
CBA and Suncorp join NAB as possible sellers of life insurance divisions. 

 5 hours ago  
Lowy family injects $177m into Westfield
Sarah Danckert - The Australian
Stock purchase raises speculation of a sell down in spin-off Scentre Group. 
 
More DataRoom » 



 


The Spectators



 
 11 min ago  
The Harper review sets the right course
Andrew Leigh
A genuine emphasis on consumers is a welcome feature of the interim report from the Competition Policy Review panel. 

 22 min ago  
Has Germany's bubble finally burst?
Oliver Marc Hartwich
German policymakers have long been complacent about the country's economic health, but it now appears their inaction will come back to haunt them.  


 24 min ago  
The men who want to get rid of banks
Jackson Hewett
PayPal's co-founder expects his new start-up to write $US100m of personal loans in 12 months. He's one in an army of entrepreneurs with established bank margins in their sights. 
 

More Commentary » 
 


Most Read Commentary

PayPal's founders and Bitcoin's 'ridiculous' status
Fears of a Chinese property crash are overblown
The market stillness before the storm
A 'greedy' Telstra will test ACCC's resolve
BHP spots new LNG profits
 


Follow the Spectators







Full bio and articles »




 


Best subscriber content from The Australian





      Red carpet out for India PM 



        INDIA’S  Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, will deliver a historic ­address to federal parliament when he visits Australia next month.      





      Swans too good at their job 





      Paint the town pink 






Best content from GE Capital





      AWU joins bid for Renewable Energy Target reform    





      Rising jobless rate pushes argument for IR reform    





      Big business urged to get into bed with science sector    






Today on Business Spectator Premium for iPad






Alan Kohler on Australia's debtRobert Gottliebsen on negative gearingStephen Bartholomeusz on the NBN 




Subscribe to getaccess to the app » 


Business Spectator on Twitter

Follow us on Twitter
 







 



    A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across
   this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. This is
   also known as Online Behavioural Advertising. You can find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out here. 



InformationAbout us
Contact us
Newsletters
PoliciesPrivacy policy
Relevant Ads Opt-out
Cookie Policy
Terms & conditions
AdvertisingAdvertise with us
Advertising T&C
Copyright © 2014 Business Spectator Pty Ltd.All rights reserved. ABN 76 126 233 725 








Go to a section
BS Main menu
Home
Spectators
DataRoom
Economy
Markets
Politics
Technology
Climate
Industries
Video
Business Accelerators
Webinars
eBooks

Newsletters








