Growing concerns over 'in the air' transmission of Ebola - BBC NewsGrowing concerns over 'in the air' transmission of Ebola - BBC News

                          Accessibility links  Skip to content Accessibility Help     BBC iD    BBC navigation   News   News   Sport   Weather   Shop   iPlayer   Capital   Travel   Culture   Autos   Future   TV   Radio   CBBC   CBeebies   Arts   WW1   Food   History   Learning   Music   Science   Nature   Local   Travel   Full A-Z  Menu           Search the BBC             








BETA

                        Sections                    






Home




Video




World




US & Canada




UK




Business




Tech




Science

selected 


Magazine




Entertainment & Arts




Health




In Pictures




Also in the News




Special Reports








Science & Environment



  





   

Science & Environment


  
Growing concerns over 'in the air' transmission of Ebola

By Matt McGrath
Science reporter, BBC World Service



 16 November 2012

From the section Science & Environment






                        The infection is thought to get into humans through close contact with bodily fluids
                    
Canadian scientists have shown that the deadliest form of the ebola virus could be transmitted by air between species.In experiments, they demonstrated that the virus was transmitted from pigs to monkeys without any direct contact between them.The researchers say they believe that limited airborne transmission might be contributing to the spread of the disease in some parts of Africa. They are concerned that pigs might be a natural host for the lethal infection.

What we suspect is happening is large droplets - they can stay in the air, but not long, they don't go far. But they can be absorbed in the airway
Dr Gary Kobinger, Public Health Agency of Canada
Ebola viruses cause fatal haemorrhagic fevers in humans and many other species of non human primates.  Details of the research were published in the journal Scientific Reports.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the infection gets into humans through close contact with the blood, secretions, organs and other bodily fluids from a number of species including chimpanzees, gorillas and forest antelope. The fruit bat has long been considered the natural reservoir of the infection. But a growing body of experimental evidence suggests that pigs, both wild and domestic, could be a hidden source of Ebola Zaire - the most deadly form of the virus. Now, researchers from the Canadian Food Inspection Agency and the country's Public Health Agency have shown that pigs infected with this form of Ebola can pass the disease on to macaques without any direct contact between the species. In their experiments, the pigs carrying the virus were housed in pens with the monkeys in close proximity but separated by a wire barrier. After eight days, some of the macaques were showing clinical signs typical of ebola and were euthanised. One possibility is that the monkeys became infected by inhaling large aerosol droplets produced from the respiratory tracts of the pigs.


                        Pigs could act as a host and amplify the Ebola virus
                    
One of the scientists involved is Dr Gary Kobinger from the National Microbiology Laboratory at the Public Health Agency of Canada. He told BBC News this was the most likely route of the infection."What we suspect is happening is large droplets - they can stay in the air, but not long, they don't go far," he explained. "But they can be absorbed in the airway and this is how the infection starts, and this is what we think, because we saw a lot of evidence in the lungs of the non-human primates that the virus got in that way."The scientists say that their findings could explain why some pig farmers in the Philippines had antibodies in their system for the presence of a different version of the infection called Ebola Reston. The farmers had not been involved in slaughtering the pigs and had no known contact with contaminated tissues. Dr Kobinger stresses that the transmission in the air is not similar to influenza or other infections. He points to the experience of most human outbreaks in Africa."The reality is that they are contained and they remain local, if it was really an airborne virus like influenza is it would spread all over the place, and that's not happening." Hidden hostThe authors believe that more work needs to be done to clarify the role of wild and domestic pigs in spreading the virus. There have been anecdotal accounts of pigs dying at the start of human outbreaks. Dr Kobinger believes that if pigs do play a part, it could help contain the virus. "If they do play a role in human outbreaks it would be a very easy point to intervene" he said. "It would be easier to vaccinate pigs against Ebola than humans."


                        Workers prepare to disinfect during a recent Ebola outbreak in Uganda
                    
Other experts in the field were concerned about the idea that Ebola was susceptible to being transmitted by air even if the distance the virus could travel was limited. Dr Larry Zeitlin is the president of Mapp Biopharmaceuticals."It's an impressive study that not only raises questions about the reservoir of Ebola in the wild, but more importantly elevates concerns about ebola as a public health threat," he told BBC News. "The thought of airborne transmission is pretty frightening."At present, an outbreak of ebola in Uganda has killed at least two people near the capital Kampala.  Last month, Uganda declared itself Ebola-free after an earlier outbreak of the disease killed at least sixteen people in the west of the country.





        Share this story        About sharing




Email




Facebook




Twitter











  More on this story          Ebola outbreak in Uganda kills two    15 November 2012            Commercial ebola vaccine 'unlikely' say researchers    15 August 2012         


More Science & Environment stories




  
Top Stories

Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse
US health officials are seeking 132 people who took the same flight as a Texas nurse on the day before she came down with symptoms of Ebola.
15 October 2014


Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards
15 October 2014


Global shares slide on growth fears
15 October 2014

 

                    Features & Analysis            









Diet U-turn
Should people be eating more fat?










Fighting for justice
The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 










Rich list
If Black America were a country, where would it rank globally?










Bible Belt ballot
The place where country music and abortion don't mix










$10,000 please
The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise 










War games
Why is the US practising for conflict with China?









Video
2:06



An imminent threat?
US political ads are warning voters about Islamic militants










Golden monopoly
Is Amazon a success or failure of capitalism? 






Sneak preview
The voodoo medicine bottles found in a river





 
        



Sections


Home




Video




World




World Home

Africa 

Asia 

Europe 

Latin America 

Middle East 






US & Canada




UK




UK Home

England 

N. Ireland 

Scotland 

Wales 

Politics 

Education 






Business




Business Home

Economy 

Entrepreneurship 

Business of Sport 

Companies 

Technology of Business 

Knowledge economy 






Tech




Science

selected 


Magazine




Entertainment & Arts




Health




In Pictures




Also in the News




Special Reports





      Explore the BBC     News   News   Sport   Weather   Shop   iPlayer   Capital   Travel   Culture   Autos   Future   TV   Radio   CBBC   CBeebies   Arts   WW1   Food   History   Learning   Music   Science   Nature   Local   Travel   Full A-Z            Desktop Site   Terms of Use   About the BBC   Privacy Policy   Cookies   Accessibility Help   Parental Guidance   Contact the BBC    BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.             


