#Ebola day 5: The #Ebolaoutbreak  is mutating faster than any vaccine effort…#Ebola day 5: The #Ebolaoutbreak  is mutating faster than any vaccine effort…Search Images Maps Play YouTube News Gmail Drive More »Send Feedback | Web History | Help | Sign inHomeHomeProfilePeoplePhotosCommunitiesEventsHangoutsPagesLocalSettingsFeedbackHelp  ·  RegionPrivacy & Terms  ·  Maps TermsStart a hangout ThePilot BayThePilot BayShared publicly  -  2014-09-24 #Ebola #Ebolaoutbreak #Ebola day 5: The #Ebolaoutbreak  is mutating faster than any vaccine effort could possibly Match "The current Ebola virus’s hyper-evolution is unprecedented; there has been more human-to-human transmission in the past four months than most likely occurred in the last 500 to 1,000 years."- Michael T. Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Researchand Policy at the University of Minnesota, printed in the New York Times on Sep. 11, 2014 The Ebola virus mutates rapidly in the wild, evolving new mechanisms for surviving and spreading. Hundreds of different strains of Ebola have already been documented since the outbreak began in Africa. Vaccines can only target a single strain or a small group of related strains. So even if a vaccine is manufactured and released, it will by definition already be months behind the evolutionary curve of viral strains circulating in the wild. The key properties that the Ebola virus will attempt to improve for its own survival are:    Incubation time: Longer is better for the virus. As a virus "incubates" in a human host, it can travel undetected, almost like a stealth biological weapon.Currently, Ebola virus has about a 21-day incubation time. Symptoms typically do not appear until after 15 days.    Survival of open-air exposure: The longer a virus can "survive" (i.e. remain viable) in the open environment, the more successfully it can spread. Ebola currently has the ability to survive for days or even weeks on contaminated surfaces under the right temperature and humidity conditions. [1]     Ability to spread by air: Ebola virus can already spread short distances as an aerosol. If the virus were able to mutate into a form which could more effectively survive airborne transmission, its ability to rapidly infect hosts at longer distances would be greatly amplified.    Ability to bypass cellular defenses: The more effectively the virus can overcome the body's immune defenses, the more successfully it can multiply in a host and hope to spread to other hosts. Fortunately for Ebola, most of the human race lives today in a strongly immunosupressed state. Most prescription medications, vaccines and processed food additives suppress the immune system,making people far more vulnerable to pandemic infections. The longer Ebola circulates in the wild, the more opportunities it has to mutate into dangerous new forms that optimize all the traits mentioned above and make the virus even more deadly than it is already. Why you absolutely don't want to go to the hospital during a pandemic outbreak...  "It is impossible to keep up with the sheer number of infected people pouring into facilities. In Sierra Leone, infectious bodies are rotting in the streets." - Dr. Joanne Liu, the international president of Doctors Without Borders In any pandemic outbreak, hospitals quickly become death centers. Doctors and health care staff are rapidly infected by Ebola due to the extraordinary transmission properties of the virus, causing medical staff to either flee or be killed. "Liberia, population four million, has fewer than 250 doctors left in the entire country." (Because they've all been killed by Ebola or fled the country.) - Sheri Fink, published in the New York Times on Aug. 16, 2014 Despite their best efforts to avoid being contaminated, doctors and medical staff have a terrible track record: U.S. hospitals operating today can't even stop the spread of bacterial superbugs like MRSA, c.diff or CRE.http://anchor2helth.tumblr.com Drug companies have run out of antibiotics to treat these superbugs, and there are no antibiotics, antivirals or vaccines in existence that can treat many of today's most rapidly expanding infectious diseases (such as Ebola). During a widespread pandemic, most people will be sent home to die, with no medicine or professional medical care whatsoever. This is why it's so crucial for people to stockpile natural medicines at home and learn how to hydrate themselves, boost their own immune function and avoid infecting others in their own home. FACT: Every person who has survived Ebola so far has survived entirely because of their own immune system. No doctor on the planet has ever saved any Ebola patient. If you wish to survive an Ebola infection, you have to save your own life.Thursday: Even if an Ebola vaccine is made available, it will beexperimental and untested, turning patients into guinea pigs.http://pilotbaymedia.tumblr.com﻿Wellness and Longevity Infoangelbea1.blogspot.com1Add a comment...