Ebola victim William Pooley saved dozens of victims - TelegraphEbola victim William Pooley saved dozens of victims - Telegraph


































Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Wednesday 15 October 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










Politics
Investigations
Obits
Education
Earth
Science
Health
Defence
Scotland
Royal
Celebrities
Weird




Home»
News»
World News»
Ebola











Ebola victim William Pooley saved dozens of victims

Nurse, 29, who volunteered to help care for Ebola patients because local staff 
  were too afraid, is credited with saving dozens of lives by making sure a 
  hospital at the centre of the outbreak remained open 












William Pooley at work in Sierra Leone helping to prevent the spread of Ebola 









 






							By 
											Gordon Rayner, and Laurence Dodds

10:16PM BST 25 Aug 2014

Follow


 



The British nurse who contracted Ebola 
  in Sierra Leone gave an interview days before he fell ill in which he spoke 
  of his joy at seeing patients recover from the virus. 


William 
  Pooley, 29, who volunteered to help care for Ebola patients because 
  local nurses were too afraid, is credited with saving dozens of lives by 
  making sure a hospital at the centre of the outbreak remained open. 


Colleagues said he caught the disease, transmitted through contact with blood 
  or other bodily fluids, because he was working such long hours that he was 
  bound to “make a mistake” in his precautions. 


Mr Pooley, from Eyke, near Woodbridge in Suffolk, is being treated in an 
  isolation unit at the Royal Free Hospital, in Hampstead, north London, after 
  being flown home on Sunday by the RAF. 


His family released a statement on Monday in which they said he was receiving 
  “excellent” care. 

Related Articles



Ebola nurse William Pooley well enough for bacon sandwiches

01 Sep 2014



'Crucial time' for British Ebola patient

27 Aug 2014



British Ebola sufferer William Pooley given experimental drug ZMapp and sitting up in bed

26 Aug 2014



Ebola: the drug options

25 Aug 2014



Aid workers are too often the unsung heroes

25 Aug 2014



Japan ready to offer experimental Ebola drug abroad

25 Aug 2014





The Department of Health said he was “not seriously unwell” when he arrived 
  but experts said it could be months before he is cleared. 


Mr Pooley was interviewed 
  by The Guardian more than a week ago, before he fell ill. 


He said of his patients in Kenema: “It’s great seeing them walk away after 
  some of them have been in a terrible state, seeing them on the wards, and 
  then seeing them recover and walk out the door is great.” In an interview 
  with a local blogger earlier this month, he said: “It’s the easiest 
  situation in the world to make a difference. 


“I’m not particularly experienced or skilled, but I can do the job and I am 
  actually helping.”


His family can see him only through a plastic tent which prevents the 
  infection from spreading. 



William Pooley is loaded into RAF ambulance after being flown to Northolt 
  air base (Reuters)


They released a statement in which they said: “We would like to express our 
  thanks to all involved in bringing our son back to the UK. 


“We have been astounded by the speed and way which the various international 
  and UK government agencies have worked together to get Will home. 


“Will is receiving excellent care at the Royal Free Hospital and we could not 
  ask for him to be in a better place. 


“We would like to thank all our family and friends for their best wishes and 
  ask everyone to remember those in other parts of the world suffering with 
  Ebola who do not have access to the same health care facilities as Will.”


Mr Pooley originally went to Sierra Leone as a volunteer for six months in the 
  country’s only hospice after hearing about the dire situation during a 
  presentation to nursing students by the charity group UK Friends of The 
  Shepherd’s Hospice. 


Charity organisers have described the male nurse as a “hero”. 


His close friend Gabriel Madiye, the director of the hospice in the country’s 
  capital, Freetown, said: “We advised Will not to go to Kenema but patients 
  were being abandoned in the hospital. 


“There was no one else there to care for them and he decided he must fill the 
  gap. He is not a religious man. He describes himself as a humanist. He 
  believes in helping people. 


“But he told me he had been working 12-hour days because the local health care 
  workers were fearful of Ebola patients. Ebola is such a contagious disease 
  that a very small error can lead to infection, especially when there is no 
  running water and hygiene is so terrible.”


Dr Robert Garry, an American scientist who worked at the same hospital, said: 
  “When you work hard like that, when you put in so many hours, you’re going 
  to make a mistake. 


“Unfortunately that seems to have happened in this case.”


Dr Oliver Johnson, who has been treating patients in Freetown, said: “He is an 
  extremely modest guy. He wasn’t at all interested in recognition. He would 
  be cringing if he knew the media were talking about him. But in a very quiet 
  way he would work enormous hours to help protect the other staff. 


“In the darkest days in Kenema it was really his determination and leadership 
  that motivated others to keep going there and keep the hospital open. 


“Kenema was ground zero for the outbreak and he was one of only a handful of 
  nurses helping treat up to 50 Ebola patients that were admitted there. 


“He showed enormous compassion for his patients. Will’s a pretty extraordinary 
  guy. Even for those of us working with Ebola patients in Sierra Leone, he 
  stood out as being particularly brave. 


“He and I spoke about the risk together and I think he absolutely understood 
  that there were risks involved. 


“He also knew, though, that he was well trained and there were good 
  precautions in place, so it was a measured risk. 


“But where he was in Kenema a number of staff had become sick. He was a hugely 
  professional nurse and a hugely dedicated one, so he understood those 
  [risks] but was prepared to take them for the sake of the patients and 
  colleagues.” 


Mr Pooley’s father, Robin, is a former teacher who set up a removals business, 
  Pooley Removals, with his wife Jackie. 


They later sold the business but still work for it and Mrs Pooley is also the 
  clerk on the parish council in Eyke. 


Chris Mutten, a parish councillor in the village, said: “His family are very 
  proud of him. He has been all over the world and his work is all voluntary. 
  He is doing his bit for society.”


Mr Pooley tested positive for Ebola on Saturday. There is no cure for the 
  virus and outbreaks have a fatality rate of up to 90 per cent, though that 
  figure is less than 50 per cent for victims who are treated in western 
  countries. 


The nurse arrived in Sierra Leone on March 25 and worked at the hospice until 
  early July, when he went to the Kenema Government Hospital. 


Dr Peter Carter, chief executive and general secretary of the Royal College of 
  Nursing, said: “William Pooley demonstrated incredible bravery. We wish him 
  a speedy recovery.”







 








Ebola





News »


Sierra Leone »


UK News »


Health News »


Gordon Rayner »









In Ebola






 


Ebola outbreak in pictures








 


Ebola in Liberia: pictures








 


Ebola explained








 


If Ebola was in the UK we'd cure it, says leading doctor








 


How could Ebola virus travel to the UK?








 













Read more World News





Isil jihadists may have access to chemicals for dirty bombs




 




Former commander of British Army issues warning as it emerges two large 
  stockpiles of shells filled with mustard and sarin gas have not been made 
  secure 






Amal Clooney: Greece has just cause to claim return of Elgin Marbles




 




Amal Clooney, the British lawyer who married George Clooney, says the British 
  Museum should be embarrassed about how the friezes have been split between 
  London and Athens 






America's war on Isil finally gets a name: Operation Inherent Resolve




 




The name was initially dismissed as "just kind of bleh", but US 
  officials seem unable to think of a better name for Isil operation 


Comments






Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'




 


 Video


John Grisham, the Memphis lawyer whose legal thrillers have sold millions of 
  copies worldwide, argues that the law is too harsh on those who have been 
  found guilty of downloading child porn 






John Grisham: men who watch child porn are not all paedophiles




 




As best-selling novelist John Grisham prepares to publish his new legal 
  thriller, he argues America's prison system has run out of control 






Probe sends ‘space selfie’ ahead of comet touchdown




 




Some 300 million miles from Earth, stunning images show comet firing off a 
  stream of gas as Rosetta mission prepares to launch first comet landing 






Republican says 'ugly as sin' Democrat will lose her seat in US congress




 




Attack on New Hampshire congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster triggers condemnation 
  from female politicians 






Steenkamp relatives describe how Pistorius shooting 'ruined' family




 




Reeva Steenkamp's loved ones give emotional testimony at court, recounting 
  childhood memories and details of how her shooting by Oscar Pistorius 
  affected the "very, very close family" 






Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin




 


 Video


Steenkamps struggle to hold back tears as Reeva's cousin tells court how Oscar 
  Pistorius has "ruined" their family 






'Putin's tiger attacks henhouse in China'




 




Siberian tiger released into the wild by Vladimir Putin at risk from hunters 
  after it attacks henhouse in China 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'








 


Nasa astronauts' close encounter








 


Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin








 


Evolution of the iPad in 90 seconds








 


Man Booker Prize winner in 60 seconds








 


Ebola halloween 'costumes' causing controversy in US



 








More from the web









            Loading
        































Advertisement











More from the web 










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Business Health Insurance 




 




						10 ways to improve your posture at the office



						View







 
				Barnebys Auction




 




						At auction: Leslie Hindman and the best job in the world



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































