Standard Digital News : : KTN - KTN Video | American Doctor who contracted Ebola in Liberia finally heals  Standard Digital News : : KTN - KTN Video | American Doctor who contracted Ebola in Liberia finally heals  


















































News
KTN
Radio Maisha
Business
The Nairobian
Sports
Entertainment
Eve Woman


 





 





Home
Live TV 


KTN Live
Parliament Live
Tukuza TV



News Videos


KTN Prime
Business
KTN News
Africa Speaks
Friday Briefing
Sports


KTN Leo
Biashara
Michezo
Taarifa
Makala Spesheli


KTN NewsDesk
Business
NewsDesk
Sports



Special Features


Business Focus
Case Files
Diaspora Voice
Eco Journal
KTN Job Centre

Healthy You


How Things Work
Inside Story
Jicho Pevu
Jaramandia La Uhalifu
Perspective
Survivor Series


Past Shows
Auto World
Health Digest
Homes First
Mending The Ribbon



Interviews 


Jeff Koinange Live
Live Wire
Morning Express
NewsDesk Interviews
Sports Final
Checkpoint



Entertainment


Ajabu
Better Days
Coming Soon (Promos)
Comedies
SDE
Gavana


Mama Duka
Programmes
Shuga
Tujuane
Ultimate Challenge
Club Kiboko


Other Shows
Programmes
Schedule
Promos



KTN Shows 


Anchors and Presenters
Careers at KTN


























You are here:  Home » KTN Prime »


 

American Doctor who contracted Ebola in Liberia finally heals  
Share this video: 




Tweet















Added on August 21st, 2014 

 We begin with some heartening news coming out of the united states the american doctor who contracted ebola while working in liberia last month has recovered and is expected to be released from hospital.
Dr. Kent Brantly was one of two aid workers flown to america to receive treatment for the virus earlier this month.   both patients received doses of an experimental drug before being flown to an isolation unit in emory university hospital. it was then that doctors noted what they desribed as a miraculous incident as the two patients reposnded positively to the drug. hospital officials say nancy writebol the second aid worker was discharged on tuesday. the two will now remain under close assesment by doctors. so far ebola has killed one thousand two hundred and twenty nine people and many countries including kenya remain on high alert as it spreads in west africa.
        
Recommended Videos




 Mbio za kass marathon kufanyika tarehe 1... 
 Tofauti kati ya KNUT na KUPPET zaanza te... 
 Morning Express: Bishop Margaret Wanjiru... 
 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 14th Oct  2014 (... 
 Security officer injured as unknown gunm... 
 Bishop Margaret Wanjiru: ODM Party consp... 
 Waendeshaji magari sasa kuchukua leseni ... 
 Bishop Margaret Wanjiru reveals how ODM ... 








Next Video »

 
 Jeff Koinange offers his book for a goat to Aden Duale
 Watch Now...




More KTN Prime Videos




 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 14th Oct  2014 (... 
 Kenya Wildlife Service comes up with mea... 
 CIC insurance plans to set up a PSV insu... 
 Ministry of Labour to vet agencies engag... 
 President Uhuru opens the 12th East Afri... 
 Harambees are part and parcel of our soc... 
 Catholic church calls on the church to a... 
 President Uhuru Kenyatta presides over t... 
 First year university students kidnap a ... 
 Members of the National Assembly fires a... 
 Teachers strike now imminent as unions m... 
 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 13th October 201... 
 President Uhuru Kenyatta halts Cabinet s... 
 11% of standard eight pupils in the coun... 
 Very poor conditions facing most public ... 
 Burial plans underway following the deat... 
 Lake Turkana bursts its banks and render... 
 The government dispels fears of Ebola af... 
 Drug War: Studio discussion with Dr. Cat... 
 Middle aged man in Kakamega suspected to... 
 Wambui Matheri waited twelve years after... 
 Kenya accelerates economic growth with c... 
 Close to 10,000 students reported to dro... 
 THE THIRD GENDER: Understanding the righ... 
 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 11th October 201... 
 83 percent of students admit to drug abu... 
 Shocking statistics of rising use of nar... 
 Former KDF Officer threatens to sue the ... 
 A mother burns her children with hot kni... 
 The World marks the International Day of... 
 Retired President Daniel arap Moi calls ... 
 Jubilee leaders outraged over ICC summon... 
 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 10th October 201... 
 Grand reception for President Uhuru Keny... 
 Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana impeach... 
 Studio Discussion: Interviewing Ndungu G... 
 Caught on camera: Daylight robbery captu... 
 Traffic brought to a stand still as thou... 
 President Yoweri Museveni blasts ICC for... 
 Blow to William Ruto: ICC compels hostil... 
 The options that await the President's c... 
 A kwale court has withdrawn assault char... 
 KTN Prime Full bulletin 7th October 2014... 
 Intergovernmental Authority on Developme... 
 Solidarity with Uhuru: Kenyans steal the... 
 Uhuru Kenyatta’s case hangs in a balan... 
 Post-election violence victims still awa... 
 This were the reactions from Eldoret res... 
 The voices of the post election violence... 
 Post-election violence victims hope for ... 
 The Hague Date: This is how Uhuru Kenyat... 
 This were the reactions from Kisumu resi... 
 Justice for Kwekwe Mwandaza: Keriako Tob... 
 Busy day for William Ruto as he discharg... 
 William Ruto holds several meetings on d... 
 KTN Prime Interview: One on one with Mar... 
 A low key arrival for President Uhuru as... 
 One on one with Audrey Mbugua the transg... 
 Why you need to be careful while driving... 
 Why it is difficult to educate a Turkana... 
 What The acting president can do and wha... 
 Members of 11th parliament vow to stand ... 
 The wananchi group secures Ksh11.6 bn to... 
 IPOA: Police unit have ignored National ... 
 KTN Prime Full Buletin 6th Oct 2014
 President Uhuru Kenyatta appoints his de... 
 Studio  discussions: Was it necessary fo... 
 COTU suspends Francis Atwoli’s deputy ... 
 Kenya loses manufacturing companies to o... 
 A special prayer for the president, but ... 
 Somalia Ambassador’s story on how he f... 
 KTN Weekend Prime Full Bulletin (5th Oct... 
 Rising speculation over Uhuru’s positi... 
 The plight of Kenyan refugees in Uganda
 The Alshabaab are just about to lose con... 
 No sacred cows in the implementation of ... 
 Retired President Daniel A. Moi asks Jub... 
 Women in Lari constituency embark on a p... 
 Check point: 5TH Oct 2014 The Kenyan Ref... 
 What’s the point?: Restorative versus ... 
 The KRU Vice chairman Philip Jalang’o'... 
 12 minors rescued freed from bizarre “... 
 Muslims around the world celebrate the f... 
 African union troops (AMISOM) liberates ... 
 Mathira Member of Parliament, Peter Weru... 
  Kenya joins other countries in marking ... 
 Samburu men consider getting sexually tr... 
 Nakuru County MPs welcome President Uhur... 
 DISABILITY IS NOT INABILITY: The inspiri... 
 KTN Prime Full Bulletin 5th October 2014... 
 President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to fly t... 
 Makueni County Governor, Kivutha Kibwana... 
 Inspector General David Kimayio orders a... 
 Francis ole Kaparo mediates between the ... 
 Shock in Chepkochun Village as family pi... 
 ONE ON ONE: Francis Ole Kaparo talks abo... 
 KENYA POLICE ASSAULT: Police officer sho... 
  Kiambu County threaten to deny Nairobi ... 
 TASTE OF KOREA: The Korean traditional M... 
 The MCA's wrath: Makueni County governme... 







Comment Policy




Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




Find us on Social Media


Follow @KTNKenya












Most Watched




                Did President Uhuru Kenyatta hit someone in the crowd that came to receive him from t  ...             





                President Uhuru Kenyatta presides over the Kenya Defence Forces day the at Lanet KDF   ...             





                Mathira Member of Parliament, Peter Weru injured in an accident             





                Margaret Wanjiru: President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are innocent             





                Bishop Margaret Wanjiru is looking forward to getting married any time soon             








 






Popular Stories

 Groom dies just hours after his wedding in a grisly road accident  
Dreaming that your partner is cheating on you? Here is the explanation
Sad tale of two pilots who fell asleep before crash that killed 228 people
Nine weird myths about Hitler the Nazi dictator you probably never knew
Sex attacker wept and apologised to terrified rape victim before carrying on with the act
Murderer beats his own mother to death just two days after finishing 30-year prison sentence
African parrot that disappeared for four years returns speaking Spanish
Mutant 'Alien' sea creature with 100 moving arms caught at sea











News

Kenya 
 Politics 
Business 
 World 
 Sports 
 Opinion 
 Magazines 
 Special Reports 
 The Nairobian 



Sports

Athletics 
 Football
Rugby
 Volleyball 
 Cricket
 Boxing



Entertainment

Gossip
Entertainment News
Celebs
Events
Video Reviews
Spiritual
Gallery
The Nairobian 



Standard Digital is a product of The Standard Group Limited
Go to Full Site




Copyright 2014 The Standard Group. Permission to use quotations from this article is granted subject to appropriate credit being given to www.standardmedia.co.ke as the source




