This is Paragon International Magazine Blog: #Ebola: Ibadan Bush Meat Sellers Protest Low Patronage!This is Paragon International Magazine Blog: #Ebola: Ibadan Bush Meat Sellers Protest Low Patronage!

















































































Pages


Home
Entertainment
News


















































































Tuesday, 19 August 2014








#Ebola: Ibadan Bush Meat Sellers Protest Low Patronage!





Scores of bush meat sellers, yesterday, marched to Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s office at the Oyo State Secretariat, Ibadan, complaining of low patronage due to the outbreak of Ebola disease.

The women under the aegis of Bushmeat Sellers Association lamented that since the announcement that the deadly disease could be caused by eating bush meat, spell had been cast on their sales.

Speaking on behalf of the association, Alhaja Risikat Odeyemi, Iyalode, Bushmeat Association, Oyo State, said it was strange that bush meat which had hitherto been taken as a special delicacy should now be seen as a poison.





She said, “our meats do not have any ebola virus. We don’t know why people should just be peddling rumour that would be injurious to other people. This is not good at all. They have spoilt our business without any good reason. What we heard is that the disease was contacted through the river. Why should they just start trying to be so unfair”.

They said before the announcement, a grass cutter was being sold between N2,000 and N4,000 and the same thing goes for antelope and other animals. But, now they regretted that there are no sales again, adding, “We normally stand by the roadside to invite prospective buyers. But now when we call them to buy bush meat, they always reply us saying, “ebola”. It is the same meat we have been eating and nothing has happened to us.”

Their visit to the governor’s office, she added, was to appeal to him to help us dispel the rumour that bush meat causes Ebola.

At press time, the governor was yet to attend to them and many of the bush meat sellers sat clumsily at the entrance of the gate because the security men at the gate did not allow them to move closer to the governor’s office.





Posted by



Sandra Dickson-Oyetayo




at

8:03 am











Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest









Reactions: 








No comments:







Post a Comment






























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










SHADYS BOUTIQUE



VISIT US TODAY












 

Search This Blog


Loading...













Follow by Email












































Facebook Like Box Widget















Facebook Like Box Widget











































Labels



entertainment


gist


gossip


sports














Feedjit Live Blog Stats











BON Awards 2014





BON Awards


















NEVER MISS A GIST AGAIN



ADD US ON BBM 7A189316











Follow Us On INSTAGRAM














Share It
















Google+ Followers






Google+ Badge




Subscribe To







Posts










                Atom
              










Posts












Comments










                Atom
              










Comments



















Get Closer, FOLLOW US ON TWEETER





CLICK THE FOLLOW BOTTON NOW DEAR











Trending Posts









Strange; 60 Year Old Woman Commits Suicide In Akure!
  A 60-year-old woman, Deborah Lawani, has committed suicide by hanging at No 56, Araromi Street, Akure, the Ondo state capital.   Sources s...










UPDATES! Woman That Turned To Bird In Osodi Is Dead.. How It Really Happened!
Shocking things are happening, whether you believe or not and this is one big example. We brought you the story of a middle-aged woman who c...










PHOTO: Bird Turns To Woman After She Allegedly Falls From High Tension Wire In Osodi!
  Though i have my doubts about the authenticity of this story but who knows it might have some iota of truths in it afterall. Gist has it t...










Fathia Balogun Fights Ronke Odusanya Dirty Over Pasuma. All The Dirty Details!
Mother of two and A-list Yoruba actress, Fathia Williams aka Fathia Balogun is very furious at her younger colleague, Ronke Odusanya popular...










Insult Upon Injury; OLX Mocks Linda Ikeji, Ask Her To Sell One Of Her Cars! [Pictures]
Oh my world, these people will not just allow Linda to rest o abi na she say make una sef no be 'number one'? *wide grin*. So OLX de...










SCARY Pic: A New Virus [MHF] Takes Over As The World Move To Combat Ebola!
As the world reels from the deaths caused by EVD, (the Ebola virus),  the recent death of a Ugandan hospital technician of another deadly vi...










GAINS OF ADULTERY! Politician Dies In Ogun After Bout Of Early Morning Hot S£X With Lover!
A certain Miss Jimoh Ibrahim, 30 has been nabbed for allegedly killing and dumping the body of her 78-year-old politician lover, Adedayo Der...










Pictures Of The Day: You Won't Believe This 'Lady' Was Once A MAN!
Whoever says money can't buy happiness? Well, they lied! If you weren't told, who would ever thought this pretty 'damsel' wa...










"Tell Your Fans The Truth About Your Crumbling Marriage"- KC Limpopo Charges Tiwa Savage!
  For some time now, Tiwa and her husband of less than one year, Tunji Billz have been in the news concerning their marital challenges. Espe...










Breaking, Google Takes Down Linda Ikeji Blog. All The Detailed Reasons!
   Precisely two days ago, Linda ikeji, Nigerian number one celebrity blogger known for flaunting her affluence came on her site to rant abo...















FOR NEWS TIPS AND ADVERTS PLACEMENTS CALL 08034778014





Sandra Dickson-Oyetayo




I am an entertainer in its entirety.A writer, an On-Air personality, an actor, dancer, music lover, enterpreneur; Publisher of the all colour, all gloss international magazine; PARAGON International. A realist. Easy-going and God fearing, straight forward and blunt. Loves God dearly and appreciates all the good things in life. There is definately more to me than what catches the eye. Add me on BBM pin 7A4178AC for more

View my complete profile











Shadys Boutique





Shop With Us
























































Blog designed by Coachp. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by ozgurdonmaz. Powered by Blogger.

































