The Liberian slum where Ebola spreads death among killer virus 'deniers'   - TelegraphThe Liberian slum where Ebola spreads death among killer virus 'deniers'   - Telegraph

































Accessibility links

Skip to article
Skip to navigation






Advertisement









Telegraph.co.uk









NewSearch








		Wednesday 15 October 2014















Home
Video
News
World
Sport
Finance
Comment
Culture
Travel
Life
Women
Fashion
Luxury
Tech
Cars










USA
Asia
China
Europe
Middle East
Australasia
Africa
South America
Central Asia
Expat




Home»
News»
World News»
Africa and Indian Ocean»
Liberia











The Liberian slum where Ebola spreads death among killer virus 'deniers'  
Blue crosses on houses in New Kru Town mark the few residences to have complied with the advice of visiting health officials, while countless others rely on prayer and witchcraft to fend off Ebola in Monrovia 










Liberian nurses spray disinfectant around a house after loading the body of an Ebola victim on a truck in the outskirts of Monrovia Photo: Ahmed Jallanzo/EPA









 






							By 
											Colin Freeman, in New Kru Town, Liberia

10:03AM BST 08 Aug 2014
 



If ever there was a likely spot for an outbreak 
  of the deadly Ebola virus, New Kru Town in Liberia is it. A sprawling 
  slum of the country's war-ravaged capital, Monrovia, it is home to 50,000 
  people, and has next to no functioning lavatories, sinks or bathrooms. 


Sewage runs openly through its maze of corrugated shacks, and in Liberia's wet 
  season – at its height right now – tropical torrents turn it into one vast, 
  warm, moist, breeding pool for germs. 


It hardly feels surprising then, in the wake of several locals dying from 
  Ebola, to see health teams daubing blue crosses on a number of shacks around 
  town. 


These, however, are not to identify those who have caught the disease, but to 
  mark the relatively few New Kru Towners who have been visited by the teams 
  and accepted their advice on how to avoid getting it. So far, only around 
  500 houses have been marked – and with health workers themselves accused of 
  spreading the disease, some parts of New Kru Town remain decidedly hostile. 


"This is a very poor neighbourhood where sanitation is lacking and people 
  are not well educated in the principles of hygiene," said Tamba Bundor, 
  leader of a team of hardy volunteers from local health charity Community 
  Development Services, a Unicef partner, as he drove his car through wet, 
  sandy backlanes. 

Related Articles



WHO declares Ebola epidemic an international health emergency

08 Aug 2014



Ebola victim left lying in street over infection fears

07 Aug 2014



Barack Obama: Ebola drug 'not ready' for use in Africa

07 Aug 2014



Ebola outbreak explained in 60 seconds

29 Jul 2014



Spain to accept Europe’s first confirmed case of Ebola virus

06 Aug 2014



First European Ebola patient arrives in Spain

07 Aug 2014





"It is where the first victims of Ebola died in Monrovia, and most people 
  who have been affected became so because they did not adhere to the messages 
  of prevention."


Nearly 1,000 people have now died of Ebola across west Africa. While the 
  outbreak started in remote forested inland areas – possibly via fruit bats – 
  New Kru Town is an example of the ease and unpredictability with which it 
  has spread to urban capitals along the coastline, catching health officials 
  off-guard. 






When some initial cases first appeared in Liberia's northern Lofa County back 
  in March, health officials initially thought they had it under control. But 
  in June, a resident of a district of New Kru Town known as Carpet Street 
  died, as did several others. According to Dr Bernice Dahn, Liberia's chief 
  medical officer, three of the victims passed away while they were being 
  sheltered in a local church – a sign of how many some people believe the 
  disease is a curse that can be cured by prayer or witchcraft. 


"We must stop keeping people suspected of Ebola in our churches on ground 
  that we can heal them," she warned at the time. "The churches are 
  not hospitals."


Liberian hospitals, however, do not always inspire the kind of faith that 
  people have in Liberian churches. A fortnight ago, one the main local health 
  facilities, Redemption Hospital, was stoned by a mob after a woman died in 
  there from a suspected Ebola case, following nationwide rumours that health 
  workers were themselves passing on the disease. Today, the squat, single 
  storey building offers redemption no more, having been shut down temporarily 
  amid fears from staff for their own safety. 


Safety is a concern too for Mr Bundor and his colleagues, who were attacked as 
  they tried to visit the house of the bereaved family on Carpet Street. 


The deceased's relatives were insisting that their loved one had died as a 
  result of a family curse – a cause of death that, in New Kru Town anyway, 
  carries less social stigma than dying of an infectious disease like Ebola. 


"The family of the victim were angry, saying it was a curse, not Ebola," 
  said Anthony Worpor, another of Mr Bundor's health team, who was clad in a 
  teeshirt that said 'save lives, wash your hands before you eat'. 


"A crowd gathered, and some accused us health workers of spreading the 
  disease ourselves. They even began touching a local journalist we had 
  brought with us, saying: 'if you think it is us spreading it, then here you 
  are, we will infect you'."


New Kru Town was originally named after the Kru, a powerful ethnic group who 
  live in both Liberia's interior and coastal fishing communities. They were 
  traditionally known for a certain independence of mind, and European slave 
  traders used to complain that they were particularly resistant to capture, 
  to the point where their price as slaves was considerably lower. 


They proved equally hostile to the freed American slaves who founded Liberia 
  in the 19th century, when the latter tried to muscle in on their trading 
  empires. 


Today, New Kru Town is home to a wider mix of ethnicities, but even so, 
  suspicion of outside messages persists. While Mr Bundor's education 
  programme has already enjoyed some success, he estimates that 40 per cent of 
  New Kru Town's residents are still "in denial" about Ebola's 
  risks, and the necessary health measures to avoid it. 


Indeed, some residents see to treat Mr Tanga rather like a Christian 
  door-to-door preacher, listening to politely to his warnings but not heeding 
  them. For example, at Alan's Bar, a dark, dinghy shebeen, a poster warning 
  of the dangers of Ebola already hung on the front door. Yet official health 
  advice is to avoid bars and other public gathering places altogether right 
  now, a message that the groups of drinkers inside, listening to blaring 
  African disco music, have chosen to ignore. 


The owner of the bar, Alan Tokba, told The Telegraph that "no dancing was 
  allowed" inside, and that visitors were being asked to wash their hands 
  as they went in, but Mr Bundor admitted that it was "not satisfactory". 

Nor was he entirely happy with the efforts of mother-of-three, Tina Teeh, 26. 
  Her house already bore the blue cross of one of New Kru Town's 
  hygiene-converts, but the bucket of chlorinated water she had for her 
  children to wash their hands in did not have a separate container to drip 
  the fluid onto their hands first. 


"I can't afford it," she told the disapproving Mr Bundor. 


"But what if you end up ill?" he asked her. "Then you will have 
  to afford hospital fees."


Another mother who claimed to have seen the light was Julie Life, 30, who 
  admitted having been sceptical that Ebola even existed Mr Bundor first 
  visited her home a few days ago. Then again, she said her main reason for 
  changing her mind was in watching a deadly virus at work in the Tom Cruise 
  film Mission Impossible II. 


As Mr Bundor and his colleagues trudged off to root out New Kru Town's 
  remaining Ebola "deniers", it seemed like an apt description of 
  their task. 


British doctor confident he can stay safe while treating Ebola victims 











 








Liberia





News »


World News »


Africa and Indian Ocean »


Guinea »


Sierra Leone »









In Liberia






 


Ebola outbreak in pictures








 


Ebola in Liberia: pictures








 


The deadliest Ebola outbreak in history








 


Gerard Butler visits Mary's Meals in Liberia








 


Liberia's vanishing rainforest








 













Read more World News





Isil jihadists may have access to chemicals for dirty bombs




 




Former commander of British Army issues warning as it emerges two large 
  stockpiles of shells filled with mustard and sarin gas have not been made 
  secure 






Amal Clooney: Greece has just cause to claim return of Elgin Marbles




 




Amal Clooney, the British lawyer who married George Clooney, says the British 
  Museum should be embarrassed about how the friezes have been split between 
  London and Athens 






America's war on Isil finally gets a name: Operation Inherent Resolve




 




The name was initially dismissed as "just kind of bleh", but US 
  officials seem unable to think of a better name for Isil operation 


Comments






Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'




 


 Video


John Grisham, the Memphis lawyer whose legal thrillers have sold millions of 
  copies worldwide, argues that the law is too harsh on those who have been 
  found guilty of downloading child porn 






John Grisham: men who watch child porn are not all paedophiles




 




As best-selling novelist John Grisham prepares to publish his new legal 
  thriller, he argues America's prison system has run out of control 






Probe sends ‘space selfie’ ahead of comet touchdown




 




Some 300 million miles from Earth, stunning images show comet firing off a 
  stream of gas as Rosetta mission prepares to launch first comet landing 






Republican says 'ugly as sin' Democrat will lose her seat in US congress




 




Attack on New Hampshire congresswoman Ann McLane Kuster triggers condemnation 
  from female politicians 






Steenkamp relatives describe how Pistorius shooting 'ruined' family




 




Reeva Steenkamp's loved ones give emotional testimony at court, recounting 
  childhood memories and details of how her shooting by Oscar Pistorius 
  affected the "very, very close family" 






Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin




 


 Video


Steenkamps struggle to hold back tears as Reeva's cousin tells court how Oscar 
  Pistorius has "ruined" their family 






'Putin's tiger attacks henhouse in China'




 




Siberian tiger released into the wild by Vladimir Putin at risk from hunters 
  after it attacks henhouse in China 









Advertisement




















Telegraph on Facebook







Advertisement










Latest Video»







 


Grisham: we've 'gone nuts' with locking up 'sex offenders'








 


Nasa astronauts' close encounter








 


Pistorius has 'ruined' our family, says Reeva's cousin








 


Evolution of the iPad in 90 seconds








 


Man Booker Prize winner in 60 seconds








 


Ebola halloween 'costumes' causing controversy in US



 








More from the web









            Loading
        































Advertisement











More from the web 











News Most Viewed






TODAY




PAST WEEK




PAST MONTH








Mark Zuckerberg 'buys part of Hawaii' for $100 million
Pistorius sentence: Government steps in over prison rape claims
Live: Oscar Pistorius sentencing
Watch: plane's cabin panels split open mid-flight
Oscar Pistorius faced with ex-girlfriend who testified against him




Dwarf stripper gets bride pregnant on her hen night
'Vampire grave' found in Bulgaria
Live: Oscar Pistorius sentencing
Official: Red Bull does not actually give you wings
Backpacker had 3-inch leech living up her nose




Referendum results - as it happened
Referendum: latest poll tracker
Dwarf stripper gets bride pregnant on her hen night
As it happened: Scottish independence campaign, Thursday 18 September, 2014
Alan Henning's wife: 'The news we hoped we would never hear'










Advertisement











More from the web»




















MORE FROM TELEGRAPH.CO.UK








 
				Audi




 




						Audi R18 in pictures



						View







 
				Business Health Insurance 




 




						10 ways to improve your posture at the office



						View







 
				Barnebys Auction




 




						At auction: Leslie Hindman and the best job in the world



						View












Back to top




HOME
News
UK News
Politics

Long Reads

Wikileaks
Jobs

 
World News
Europe
USA
China

Royal Family News

Celebrity news
Dating

 
Finance
Education
Defence
Health

Weird News

Editor's Choice
Financial Services

 
Pictures
Video
Matt
Alex

Comment

Blogs
Crossword

 
Contact Us
Privacy and Cookies
Advertising
Fantasy Football

Tickets


Announcements
Reader Prints






Follow Us
Apps
Epaper
Expat


Promotions
Subscriber
Syndication



 

© Copyright of Telegraph Media Group Limited 2014
Terms and Conditions 
Today's News
Archive
Style Book
Weather Forecast


 





































