DR Congo Ebola death toll climbs to 32 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWebDR Congo Ebola death toll climbs to 32 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb

Skip to main content








Labs
Blog
Mobile















About Us
Help

Login
Register
 









Home
Updates
Countries
Disasters
Topics
Organizations
Jobs
Training
 


















Print06 Sep 2014
DR Congo Ebola death toll climbs to 32
Reportfrom
Agence France-Presse
Published on
06 Sep 2014











09/06/2014 18:44 GMT -
KINSHASA, September 6, 2014 (AFP) - The Democratic Republic of Congo upped its death toll from Ebola on Saturday to 32 but insisted the outbreak, separate from an epidemic raging in west Africa, could be contained in its remote forest hotspot.
"We have registered 32 deaths," one up from a toll issued on Tuesday, Health Minister Felix Kabange Numbi told a press conference.
Kabange tallied 59 likely or confirmed cases of the tropical fever, saying the "big challenge" was to survey suspicious cases in order to staunch the contagion.
Three hundred and thirty-six people have had contact with Ebola sufferers or the bodies of victims, up from 285 on Tuesday, he said.
The DRC has given itself 45 days to break the transmission train of the virus, which can spread by contact with bodily fluids and has killed more than 2,000 people in four West African nations this year.
But Kabange said the outbreak in DRC -- where Ebola was first discovered in 1976 near the river of the same name in what was then Zaire -- "remains contained".
He recently returned from a trip to the affected region, near the city of Boende some 800 kilometres (500 miles) northwest of Kinshasa in Equateur province.
Authorities have implemented "protected burials" for any funeral, irrespective of whether the victim died from Ebola, in the 23 villages affected by the outbreak, he said.
While the outbreak is located far from urban centres in the heart of dense equatorial forest, reducing the risk of contagion, its remoteness has made aid delivery a particular challenge.
Decades of neglect have devastated road and rail infrastructure, also hampering efforts to quarantine patients.
Kabange said aid groups had established "an air drop in order to deliver medical supplies".
Last week, the UN announced it had released $1.5 million (1.3 million euros) to help the government in Kinshasa combat the outbreak, with the prospect of doubling that sum.
mbb/mj/mkh/pg
© 1994-2014 Agence France-Presse
Agence France-Presse:©AFP: The information provided in this product is for personal use only. None of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of Agence France-Presse.












 

Featured


Primary countryDemocratic Republic of the Congo


Featured
DR Congo: Ebola Outbreak - Aug 2014





 Theme:  Health
 
 Content format:  News and Press Release
 
 Language:  English
 
 Disaster type:  Epidemic
  
















Home
Updates
Countries
Disasters
Topics
Organizations
Jobs
Training
 


About Us
Help










ReliefWeb
Informing humanitarians worldwide.
A service provided by
          
ReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.Learn more about ReliefWeb




Help the humanitarian community by taking the ReliefWeb user survey
At ReliefWeb, your feedback, ideas and suggestions are very important to us. They are what have helped ReliefWeb become such an important tool for the humanitarian community. We’re always exploring...
Visit the blog 

Connect With ReliefWeb


Receive news about us











 




Related Sites






















Submit Content
Share information through ReliefWeb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.
How to submit content


Tools

API - Real-time data stream to power next-generation apps.
Location Maps - Country maps for your reports and presentations.
Humanitarian Icons - Ready-to-use symbols and icons. Free download.
RSS - Subscribe to information finely tuned to your needs.
Support & Feedback Forum - Get answers and help us improve ReliefWeb.







 



