 Ebola epidemic: experimental drugs to be rushed to Africa | World news | The Guardian  Ebola epidemic: experimental drugs to be rushed to Africa | World news | The Guardian 







Turn autoplay off
Turn autoplay on


Please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off




Jump to content [s]
Jump to site navigation [0]
Jump to search [4]
Terms and conditions [8]




Edition:
UK
US
AU






Your activity
Email subscriptions
Account details
Linked services
Sign out



Profile


Beta




























News


US


World


Sports


Comment


Culture


Business


Money


Environment


Science


Travel


Tech


Media


Life & style


Data







News




World news




Ebola









Ebola epidemic: experimental drugs to be rushed to Africa
Vaccine trials under way as experts fear disease could become endemic in worst-hit areas of Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia






Share




Tweet this








Email







Sarah Boseley, health editor	






The Guardian,
				            Tuesday 23 September 2014 12.06 EDT










Medical workers n Freetown, Sierra Leone, learn how to protect themselves against the Ebola disease. Photograph: Xinhua/Landov/Barcroft Media





Experimental drugs are to be fast-tracked into west Africa so that they can be tested and, if they work, save lives in the Ebola epidemic, which, experts say, is spiralling out of control. Trials of vaccines are already in their early stages, with healthy British volunteers taking part in safety tests in the UK. The Wellcome Trust is committing £3.2m to set up sites, systems and facilities for drug testing across the affected countries as well.
There is major international concern over the spread of infection and the disintegration of healthcare systems under pressure from the disease. The Centres for Disease Control (CDC) in the US released new projections on Tuesday saying that in the worst scenario, if the spread of Ebola goes unchecked, there could be 1.4m cases by late January. The WHO has not projected that far ahead, but has warned that there could be nearly 20,000 cases by early November.
Healthcare systems in the three worst-hit countries, Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia, fragile to begin with, have largely collapsed under the strain of coping with what may prove to be one of the most serious viral disease outbreaks in modern times.
More than 40 British military and humanitarian staff have arrived in Freetown, Sierra Leone, to oversee the construction of a UK medical facility, which will be part of the £100m UK commitment to help contain the outbreak. That includes 700 Ebola treatment beds.
The news followed a meeting of the UK’s emergency committee, Cobra, on Tuesday afternoon. It was chaired by foreign secretary Philip Hammond by videolink from New York, where the Ebola crisis had been a significant topic of discussion. “It is now vital that the international community translates its concern into action,” said Hammond. “This outbreak has wide-ranging humanitarian and security consequences for the region, and the world. Defeating this disease will need a global coalition, as well as innovative approaches to reducing the spread of the virus in communities.”
An analysis of the first nine months of the outbreak in the New England Journal of Medicine shows that the death rate is 70%, not 50%, when deaths outside hospitals are counted. Many people are too frightened to go to hospital and the number of infections is doubling every few weeks. As of 20 September, the WHO said there had been 5,843 cases and 2,803 confirmed deaths.
Some questioned the CDC projection of 1.4m cases by January. “It’s a big assumption that nothing will change in the current outbreak response,” said Dr Armand Sprecher, an infectious disease specialist at Doctors Without Borders. “Ebola outbreaks usually end when people stop touching the sick. The outbreak is not going to end tomorrow, but there are things we can do to reduce the case count.”
A call from the UK government for NHS volunteers to go out and help has so far led to 164 healthcare staff signing up. A similar appeal at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine by its director, Professor Peter Piot, has resulted in 35 staff volunteering so far. There is a particular need for trained nurses, clinicians, diagnostic laboratory technicians and sanitation experts, Piot told the school.
Experts fear that Ebola could become endemic in west Africa, instead of a viral disease that emerges from animals to cause outbreaks and then disappears again. If that happens, the region could be a reservoir for the spread of the virus, not only to other parts of Africa, but also the rest of the world, said Piot and Jeremy Farrar, the director of the Wellcome Trust, in the New England Journal. They said the epidemic “seems out of control and has evolved into a major humanitarian crisis”. In west Africa “there is a very real danger of a complete breakdown in civic society”, and communities have lost faith in authority.
Societies that were being rebuilt after civil war have been devastated by Ebola and will need rebuilding once the epidemic is finally under control, said Piot, who believes the World Health Organisation has been too slow to respond. It was three months before the first cases in December last year were identified, he said. “It was another five months and 1,000 deaths until WHO declared this a public health emergency and the world started getting serious about it.”
Several different potential drugs are likely to be trialled in west Africa, including Zmapp, which has already been used on foreign doctors and aid workers with the disease. Current supplies of the drug, made from leaves of the tobacco plant, have been used up, but its manufacture is restarting.
Independent experts will decide which potential drugs are suitable for testing – there will have to be safety data before any can be given to patients and a rapid ethical review will have to be undertaken.
“It is a huge challenge to carry out clinical trials under such difficult conditions, but ultimately this is the only way we will ever find out whether any new Ebola treatments actually work,” said Farrar. “What’s more, rapid trials, followed by large-scale manufacturing and distribution of any effective treatments, might produce medicines that could be used in this epidemic. The Wellcome Trust funding will allow these trials to happen quickly, and in an ethically and scientifically robust setting.”













Sign up for the Guardian Today
Our editors' picks for the day's top news and commentary delivered to your inbox each morning.
Sign up for the daily email







Print this
Share
Contact us




Send to a friend





Sender's name



Recipient's email address





Your IP address will be logged







Share



				Short link for this page:
				http://gu.com/p/4xzcy




StumbleUpon
				



reddit
				



Tumblr
				



Digg
				



LinkedIn
				



del.icio.us
				



Facebook
				



Twitter
				








Contact us





					                        Report errors or inaccuracies: reader@theguardian.com


											Letters for publication should be sent to: guardian.letters@theguardian.com






					If you need help using the site: userhelp@theguardian.com


					Call the main Guardian and Observer switchboard: +44 (0)20 3353 2000




Advertising guide


License/buy our content








World news


Ebola ·															

Guinea ·															

Liberia ·															

Sierra Leone ·															

Africa 

Society
Science


Drugs 

More 			news
	




More on this story







 

 Ebola: lessons from Haiti's cholera epidemic should not be forgotten 

 David Heymann: A rapid, robust and coordinated global effort is the only way to stop Ebola from claiming more and more lives around the world 



Live


 Ebola: Second Texas healthcare worker tests positive as world grapples with outbreak - live updates 



 

 UK landlords refuse to house student from Sierra Leone over Ebola fears 



 

Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with virus 



 

 Cameron to discuss Ebola crisis with  Obama and EU leaders 



 

 Ebola epidemic 2014: timeline 



 

 Ebola screening confusion on day one of new Heathrow airport measures 



 

 UN medical official dies of Ebola in German hospital 



 

 'A teenage girl bled to death over two days': Ebola nurses describe life and death on the frontline 



 

 Ebola: European food safety experts to assess risk of bushmeat to EU countries 



 

 Ebola vaccine trials under way in Mali 



 

 Obama admits 'we're not moving fast enough' to stop Ebola spread 



 

 Ebola epidemic: Sierra Leone quarantines a million people 



 

 Third US patient treated for Ebola now free of the virus, doctors say 



 

 West Africa's Ebola crisis - in pictures 



 

 Up to 1.4m people could be infected with Ebola by January, CDC warns 



 

 Ebola outbreak:  how can you help? 



 

 Life in an Ebola zone – share your stories 



Comment & analysis







 

 How Ebola turned a Guinean family tragedy into a west African crisis 

 When a toddler in Meliandou came into contact with a fruit bat, a trail of devastation began that is far from reaching a conclusion. Clar Ni Chonghaile reports 


 

 Briefing: west Africa's Ebola crisis 



 

 Ebola's children: here in hospital for a week and then gone forever 



 

 The data behind why this is the biggest Ebola outbreak ever 



 

 Ebola: seven things that need to be done to tackle the outbreak 












Share




Tweet this








Email











































On the Guardian today




World news
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus



World news
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates



World news
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus



World news
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war



Technology
Feminist games critic cancels talk after terror threat



Science
Google Glass user treated for internet addiction caused by the device










		
	        Today's best video
    








John Lydon on Russell Brand's call for revolution: 'idiotic'


											                        
                                    			Former Sex Pistol John Lydon, aka Johnny Rotten, is interviewed by Polly Toynbee, and pours scorn on comedian Russell Brand's call for people not to vote
		









'Reeva's death ruined our family'


											                        
                                    			Reeva Steenkamp's cousin gives an emotional testimony at the Oscar Pistorius sentencing
		






The internet is after your job


											                        
                                    			Is your job under threat? And what can you do about it?
		







Red card! Boris Johnson trips child


											                        
                                    			London mayor trips a small child during a football match outside City Hall
		











On World news





Most viewed


Latest




Last 24 hours



1. 
How to avoid catching the Ebola virus


2. 
Second Texas healthcare worker diagnosed with Ebola virus


3. 
French soldier’s room unchanged 96 years after his death in first world war


4. 
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates


5. 
Reeva Steenkamp’s family reveal heartbreak at Pistorius sentencing


More most viewed




Last 24 hours



1. 
Sainsbury’s kiss-in held after lesbian couple told they were ‘disgusting’


2. 
CDC: US nurse with Ebola should not have traveled on commercial flight – live updates


3. 
Ebola-infected nurse's dog quarantined at decommissioned US naval base


4. 
UK landlords refuse to house student from Sierra Leone over Ebola fears


5. 
Camel kills American owner at wildlife park in Mexico resort


All today's stories












Sponsored feature




































License/buy our content

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Privacy policy

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
Terms of service

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
US advertising

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
A - Z index

					
  |     			    				    

																																										
			
	
	
	
				
		
About us



© 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.





























































