American Ebola patients released - CNN.comAmerican Ebola patients released - CNN.com

   
















EDITION:  INTERNATIONAL
U.S.
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNNi
CNN en Español


Set edition preference



Sign up
Log in

















Home
Video
World
U.S.
Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
Business
Entertainment
World Sport
Tech
Travel
iReport

















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











'Miraculous day' as American Ebola patients released



By Josh Levs and Jacque Wilson, CNN
August 22, 2014 -- Updated 0033 GMT (0833 HKT)
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol have been discharged from an Atlanta hospital
Doctors don't know whether an experimental serum and a blood transfusion helped 
Both contracted the deadly Ebola virus in Liberia
Brantly and Writebol are the first known Ebola patients to recover in the U.S.






(CNN) -- Dr. Kent Brantly walked around the room at Emory University Hospital on Thursday, hugging staff members and shaking hands.
It was like he wanted everyone to know: I'm no longer infectious. The virus is out of my system. Ebola didn't beat me.
Brantly and Nancy Writebol, another American missionary infected with Ebola in Liberia, have been discharged from the hospital. Writebol was released Tuesday and is choosing not to make public comments, according to the hospital.
"Today is a miraculous day," Brantly said at a news conference Thursday. "I am thrilled to be alive, to be well and to be reunited with my family."




American Ebola patients released





Brantly: 'I am thrilled to be alive'





Patients arriving at largest Ebola clinic













HONG KONG: Pro-democracy protesters battle police to control a key tunnel using umbrellas and traffic barricades. Photo by CNN's Wilfred Chan, October 14. Watch the video as protesters battle for the tunnel at CNN.COM. 






NEW YORK: Central Park on an autumn day. Photo by CNN's Brad Olson, October 14. Follow Brad (@cnnbrad) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






TORTUGUILLA, CUBA: During the drive to Guantanamo from Baracoa, we stopped in Tortuguilla to stretch our legs. The beach there seemed deserted at least until Tato surfaced from the water next to us. He had been diving for conch and showed us how to extract the animal by only making a small hole in the shell with a rock and knife. I offered to buy the very beautiful shell from Tato but he insisted it was a gift. I wanted to pay him something though and instead offered a bottle of Santiago anejo rum I had stashed in the car. "Well if you insist..." he replied with a wide smile. - CNN's Patrick Oppmann. Follow Patrick (@cubareporter) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






BELIZE: CNN Senior Photojournalist Neil Hallsworth dives the Blue Hole. The Great Blue Hole is a large underwater sinkhole off of the coast of Belize. This site was made famous by Jacques-Yves Cousteau who declared it one of the top ten best scuba diving sites in the world. Follow Neil on Instagram for more underwater photos from his dive in Belize at instagram.com/neilhallsworth.






BELIZE: Scuba diving with sharks off the coast of Belize. Photo by CNN's Neil Hallsworth. Follow Neil on Instagram for more underwater photos from his dive in Belize at instagram.com/neilhallsworth.






HONG KONG: "Empty tunnels in Hong Kong courtesy of Occupy Central." - CNN's Amanda Sealy, October 11. Follow Amanda (@asealy7) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "Nothing like 200,000 people on a Friday night fighting for their democracy." - CNN's Paul Devitt, October 10. Protest leaders called for a show of strength after the territory's deputy leader called off talks with student leaders scheduled for Friday. Hong Kong's Chief Secretary Carrie Lam said the students' refusal to end their protest had made "constructive dialogue" impossible. The protesters, demanding full democratic elections in 2017, paralyzed parts of Hong Kong in recent weeks. Follow Paul (@devocnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






PARAGUAY: The latest episode of "Anthony Bourdain Parts Unknown" takes the host to the South American country of Paraguay for the first time. Bourdain boards the Cacique II and takes in the view of the capital city of Asuncion. Photo by Zero Point Zero for CNN. Get a sneak peek at Anthony Bourdain's next adventure in Paraguay at CNN.COM. The CNN Original Series "Anthony Bourdain Parts Unknown" Sunday, Oct. 12th 9pm ET/PT.






CUBA: "Cuban doctors in Havana train to fight Ebola before deploying to Africa. The island is sending hundreds of doctors and nurses to stem the tide of the deadly epidemic." - CNN's Patrick Oppmann. Follow Patrick (@cubareporter) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






BEIJING: "Where is the sun? One knows winter is approaching in Beijing when the familiar smog returns and air pollution index reaches to hazardous again." - CNN's Steven Jiang, October 9. Follow Steven (@stevencnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






BEIJING: "Unfiltered view from office balcony: Autumn 2011 vs today." - CNN's Steven Jiang, October 9. Beijing raised its air pollution alert to orange, the second-highest level. Heavy smog routinely blankets the capital, all but blotting out the sun and forcing residents inside. Follow Steven (@stevencnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






SOUTH KOREA: View from the CNN Seoul bureau. Photo by CNN's David Hawley, October 8. Follow David (@davidhcnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






STUTTGART-ZUFFENHAUSEN, GERMANY: "The making of every man's dream. All yours for just €768,000...The 2015 Porsche 918 Spyder." - CNN's Christian Streib, October 7. Follow Christian (@christianstreibcnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






CUBA: "Farmers in the small Cuban town of Paso Quemado prepare a goat to be slaughtered. Guajiros --Cubans who live in the countryside-- are used to growing and killing their own food. It was over for the goat very quickly." - CNN's Patrick Oppmann. Follow Patrick (@cubareporter) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






FILLMORE, CA: Tony Dighera, owner of Cinagro Farms, created what he calls "Pumpkinstein." After four years of trial and error, the pumpkins that are grown within molds of Frankenstein faces are on sale online and at stores for Halloween. Photo by CNN's Michael Cary.






HONG KONG: "Many thousands of people who have come here to demonstrate have written messages on sticky notes and posted them on the walls of city hall." - CNN's Brad Olson, October 6. Follow Brad (@cnnbrad) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "Mongkok at 5 a.m. Most people are sleeping. There are police here but only to keep the peace. No sign of any kind of crackdown." - CNN's Brad Olson, October 6. Follow Brad (@cnnbrad) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






MONROVIA, LIBERIA: "Temp check...Landed this morning at 5am, this was the scene entering airport." - CNN''s Brent Swails, October 5. Follow Brent (@bsswails) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






OMAN: "Room with a view: the newly-built Alila Jabal Akhdar on the 'Green Mountain' in Oman." - CNN's Jon Jensen, October 5. Follow Jon (@jonjensencnn) & the CNNIME team along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnnime for more!






HONG KONG: A pro-democracy protester uses her personal portable fan to keep CNN cameraman Hidetaka Sato cool while he shoots a live shot with CNN's Will Ripley. Photo by CNN's Chieu Luu, October 4.






HONG KONG: "Ready for anything. These girls have prepared for tear gas with surgical masks and safety goggles. They probably won't need them which is just as well. The midnight deadline has passed and the students have not charged the police lines. The mood of the crowd tonight was that there was no need to escalate the situation and the protest remains peaceful. That's fine by me." - CNN's Brad Olson, October 3. Follow Brad (@cnnbrad) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "In Tsim Sha Tsui. The luxury storefronts on Canton Road are an unusual backdrop for Hong Kong's political standoff." - CNN's Kristie Lu Stout, October 2. Follow Kristie (@klustout) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "One of the many highways in Hong Kong that are usually packed with traffic but are now given over to pedestrians because of the big pro-democracy protests that have spread through the center of the city." - CNN's Jethro Mullen, October 1. Follow Jethro (@jethromullen) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "Hong Kong protesters are finding ways to get around non-pedestrian friendly areas." - CNN's Will Ripley, October 1. Hong Kongers marked China's National Day in unprecedented fashion Wednesday, as huge crowds of pro-democracy protesters thronged the streets of the Asian financial hub for what is shaping up as a critical day in the territory's "Umbrella Revolution." Follow Will (@willripleycnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






BEIJING: "One country, two realities: As Chinese censors black out CNN's coverage on Hong Kong Occupy Central protests, state broadcaster CCTV airs footage of National Day flag-raising ceremony in Hong Kong." - CNN's Steven Jiang, October 1. Follow Steven (@stevencnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "A chalk drawing of a bauhinia, the emblem of Hong Kong, blooms on a multi-lane highway leading into the main site of pro-democracy protests near government headquarters." - CNN's Jethro Mullen, October 1. Follow Jethro (@jethromullen) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "It is now October 1, China's National Day -- the day to celebrate the founding of the P.R.C. And this is the scene in Hong Kong. That's the glowing screens of mobile phones held aloft in the sea of protesters." - CNN's Kristie Lu Stout. Follow Kristie (@klustout) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






WASHINGTON: Hundreds of Sikhs gather in front of the White House to protest Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi meeting with President Obama. The protesters are accusing Modi and his political party of genocide against the Muslims population of Gujarat in 2002. Photo by CNN's Wesley Bruer, September 30. Follow Wesley (@wesbruer) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "People looking out at the crowd of pro-democracy protesters in Admiralty, Hong Kong, which swelled over the course of Tuesday afternoon and evening ahead of tomorrow's public holiday." - CNN's Jethro Mullen, September 30. Follow Jethro (@jethromullen) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "Pro-democracy protestors charge phones at a makeshift street charging point in Hong Kong's Admiralty district." - CNN's Charlie Miller, September 30. Thousands of protesters clamoring for full democracy in Hong Kong stood their ground Tuesday even as the head of its government said China won't give in to their demands. Protesters camped out with masks, protective goggles and plastic raincoats on the main road leading into the city's central business district -- bracing for a potential encore to the fierce police crackdown that engulfed the crowd in tear gas two days earlier. Follow Charlie (@cnncharlie) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "A police officer quietly observes the thousands of protesters joining the crowds in central Hong Kong." - CNN's Tom Booth, September 29. Hong Kong is being gripped by pro-democracy protests. Demonstrators are angry at China's decision to allow only Beijing-vetted candidates to stand in the city's elections for chief executive in 2017. Follow Tom (@tboothhk) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "Police officers napping during what has been a long night of unrest in Hong Kong. Authorities say dozens of demonstrators and at least 6 police were wounded in clashes on Sunday." - CNN's Ivan Watson, September 28. Hong Kong is being gripped by pro-democracy protests. Demonstrators are angry at China's decision to allow only Beijing-vetted candidates to stand in the city's elections for chief executive in 2017. Follow Ivan (@ivancnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: Hong Kong is being gripped by pro-democracy protests. Demonstrators are angry at China's decision to allow only Beijing-vetted candidates to stand in the city's elections for chief executive in 2017. The Hong Kong government said Monday that riot police have pulled back from pro-democracy demonstrations around the city that have caused widespread disruption in one of Asia's financial hubs. Defiant demonstrators remained on the streets of Hong Kong's financial center, blocking traffic on key highways a day after clashes with police that left more than 40 people injured. FULL STORY AT CNN.COM. Photo by CNN's Ivan Watson, September 28. Follow Ivan (@ivancnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






HONG KONG: "We determine our own destiny." Artist paints sign & scene at student boycott at Hong Kong's Chinese University, protesting against Beijing's 2017 election laws. Photo by CNN's Ivan Watson, September 22. Follow Ivan (@ivancnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






JAPAN: "Ambulances bring bodies off Mt. Ontake as small eruptions continue. 31 hikers presumed dead." - CNN's Will Ripley, September 29. The volcano in central Japan unleashed a huge cloud of ash late Saturday morning that billowed down the mountainside and engulfed hikers in its path. Witnesses described hearing a sound like thunder when the eruption began. FULL STORY AT CNN.COM. Follow Will (@willripleycnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






TURKEY-SYRIA BORDER: "Yep, a magnet... That's my camera surrounded by the curious locals... Today filming on the Syria-Turkey border. All day fighting on the Syrian side between Kurdish forces and ISIS. Zooming in with an extender I could see ISIS fighters moving between houses. One group preparing a heavy machine gun on a pick-up and another smashing a hole in a wall to access the other side. Occasional mortar landing on the Turkey side of the border, one exploding a few hundred meters from our vantage point." - CNN's Woj Treszczynski, September 28. FULL STORY AT CNN.COM. Follow Woj (@voxpen) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






VENICE, ITALY: First glimpse of the newlyweds George and Amal as they leave their hotel. George Clooney, long considered Hollywood's most eligible bachelor, married British human rights attorney Amal Alamuddin Saturday in a private ceremony in Venice, Italy, his publicist, Stan Rosenfield, told CNN. Clooney arrived by motorboat at a star-studded bash at the Aman Canal Grande Venice resort, housed in the 16th-century Palazzo Papadopoli. "George, auguri!" Venetians could be heard offering their best wishes as Clooney waved. "Auguri!" Celebrities, paparazzi and the world's media have been congregating in Venice for the widely anticipated nuptials. Photo by CNN's Erin McLaughlin, September 28. Follow Erin (@erincnn) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






CHATTAHOOCHEE HILLS, GA: Where's Waldo? These two found each other at TomorrowWorld 2014 - A three-day electronic music festival on farm land, just outside of Atlanta. More than 100,000 people are expected to attend. The highlight of this year's TomorrowWorld -- aside from a lineup featuring David Guetta, Diplo, Skrillex, Zedd, Tiesto, Steve Aoki, Bassnectar, Kaskade, Dimitri Vegas and Like Mike, Martin Garrix and hundreds more — is the 400--foot long main stage, anchored by a volcano that spews pyro during the DJs' sets. Photo by CNN's Abel Alvarado, September 27. Follow Abel (@abelalvaradof) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






MUMBAI, INDIA: "I was out shooting a rather grim story on manual scavenging. While following a scavenger cleaning human excreta from the road, I noticed these two young boys going to or coming from school. Hand in hand, full of smiles, one shot a curious look at our camera when he thought I wasn't looking." - CNN's Mallika Kapur. Follow Mallika (@mkapur1) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






DUBAI: "Africa got your back... Contemporary tattoos are now common place in the UAE, thanks in large part to the growing expat community. This work in progress is by acclaimed ink artist Delphine Noiztoy." - CNN's Amir Daftari, September 26. Follow Amir (@daftpix) and other CNNers along on Instagram at instagram.com/cnn.






Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
Scenes from the field 
HIDE CAPTION



<<
<





1





2





3





4





5





6





7





8





9





10





11





12





13





14





15





16





17





18





19





20





21





22





23





24





25





26





27





28





29





30





31





32





33





34





35





36





37





38





39





40


>
>>





Photos: CNN's 'Scenes from the field'



What happens when you survive Ebola?
Emory's staff is confident that the American patients' discharges pose "no public health threat," said Dr. Bruce Ribner, director of Emory's Infectious Disease Unit. He said the reason the public was not made aware of Writebol's release immediately was that she requested her discharge not be publicly announced.
"Nancy is free of the virus, but the lingering effects of the battle have left her in a significantly weakened condition," her husband, David Writebol, said in a statement. "Thus, we decided it would be best to leave the hospital privately to be able to give her the rest and recuperation she needs at this time."
But Brantly passed along gratitude from the woman with whom he has shared a harrowing journey.
Both patients were evacuated from Liberia this month, in a plane specially equipped with an isolation tent, and accompanied by medical staff outfitted in head-to-foot protective clothing. The plane was able to take only one patient at a time and made two trips. The patients were taken to an isolation unit at Emory, where they'd been treated for the last few weeks.
As she walked out of her isolation room Tuesday, Brantly recalls Writebol saying, "To God be the glory."
"We are tremendously pleased with Dr. Brantly and Mrs. Writebol's recovery," Ribner said at the news conference. "What we learned in caring for them will help advance the world's understanding of how to treat Ebola infections and help, hopefully, to improve survival" in other parts of the world.
"There may be some recovery time because this is a fairly devastating disease," but in general, Ebola patients who survive without organ damage are expected to "make a complete recovery," he said.
Brantly and Writebol's releases are historic, says CNN chief medical correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta. They were the first humans with Ebola to ever arrive in the United States. And they were the first humans to receive an experimental Ebola drug called ZMapp, which may have saved their lives.
Treating Ebola
There is no known cure for Ebola, no proven treatment and no vaccine. Treatment consists of giving fluids, monitoring vital signs and responding to acute medical crises. Symptoms include fever, aches, diarrhea and bleeding.




Ebola facility attacked; patients flee





U.S. doctor risks life to fight Ebola





Ebola outbreak worsens

Left untreated, infections can be deadly in up to 90% of cases. But around half the patients receiving medical care in the current outbreak in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Guinea are surviving.
The Ebola virus spreads via direct contact with bodily fluids, like blood, sweat and feces. For Ebola patients to leave isolation, Ribner said, two blood tests done in a two-day period must come back negative.
There is a slight possibility that the virus could linger for up to three months in vaginal fluid and semen, according to the World Health Organization. Ribner said that there is no evidence Ebola has ever been transmitted in this way but that the risk was discussed with both patients.
Asked about the role the experimental drug may have played in their recoveries, Ribner said doctors "do not know whether it helped them, whether it made no difference" or whether it might have delayed their recovery.
ZMapp was also given to three health care workers -- two doctors and one nurse -- in Liberia. The nurse and one of the doctors have shown "a marked improvement," according to the World Health Organization. The condition of the second doctor is "serious but has improved somewhat."
More human cases must be analyzed to determine whether the drug is having a significant effect or if it will help others in the region. But "according to the manufacturer, the very limited supplies of this experimental medicine are now exhausted," the WHO said in a statement Thursday.
Are they now immune to Ebola?
A deadly outbreak
More than 1,350 people have died in the West African Ebola outbreak since the first cases drew attention in March, the WHO said Wednesday.
Aid workers are fighting an uphill battle to stop the disease as it continues to spread. Financial and human resources have been stretched.
An emergency research "all call" was issued Thursday by medical charity Wellcome Trust and the United Kingdom's Department for International Development to find a drug to stop the outbreak.
They are making $10.8 million available to fund research. Wellcome Trust is committing another $66.5 million to the development of health research scientists in Africa, who are studying many deadly diseases there.
Canada's public health agency had 800 to 1,000 doses of a vaccine known as VSV-EBOV delivered to health officials in Liberia last week. It's unclear if anyone has been given the vaccine.
But there has been a glimmer of hope: The World Health Organization has seen "encouraging signs" from Nigeria and Guinea that positive action can rein in the deadly disease.
The situation in Lagos, Nigeria, where the country's first case was detected in July, "looks reassuring," the WHO said.
"At present, the city's 12 confirmed cases are all part of a single chain of transmission. Those infected by the initial case include medical staff involved in his treatment, a patient in the same hospital, and a protocol officer in very close contact with the patient," the organization said.
One of those 12 has made a full recovery, the WHO said, which "counters the widespread perception that infection with the Ebola virus is invariably a death sentence." Evidence suggests early detection and therapy can help people survive, it said.
Are myths making the Ebola outbreak worse?

CNN's Ben Brumfield, Trisha Henry, Greg Botelho, Chelsea Carter and MaryLynn Ryan contributed to this report.





























Most Popular

Today's five most popular stories




Serbia and Albania game abandoned after drone invasion sparks brawl








George Clooney's wife takes his name








How to eat sushi








Hong Kong police arrest 45 in clashes








Starting a business? Here are the 10 best emerging cities to launch your startup



















Part of complete coverage on 
Ebola outbreak


What you need to know

October 10, 2014 -- Updated 0939 GMT (1739 HKT)




These questions and answers will give you the latest information on the deadly virus and what's being done to stop its spread.



U.S. concern over spread of Ebola

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 1329 GMT (2129 HKT)




Kisha Bell walks into the Neighborhood Medical Center in Dallas complaining of abdominal pain. But she has a much more pressing concern weighing on her mind. 



Union slams hospital for lack of protocol

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 1929 GMT (0329 HKT)




The hospital where two health care workers contracted Ebola while caring for a patient didn't have protocols on how to deal with the deadly virus," a nurses' union claims. 



Five ways the CDC got it wrong

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 1655 GMT (0055 HKT)




Public health experts are asking whether the CDC is partly to blame for problems with Ebola in the U.S. Here are 5 things they say the CDC is getting wrong.



Can pets get or spread Ebola? 

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 2237 GMT (0637 HKT)




The lack of solid protocol on what to do with Ebola victims' pets and what little is known about the risk has caused one dog to be euthanized and another quarantined. 



Who is Ebola patient Nina Pham?

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 0249 GMT (1049 HKT)




She tackled one of the toughest jobs any nurse could take -- treating a highly contagious Ebola patient. And somehow along the way, she contracted it herself.



A look at Ebola protective gear

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 0558 GMT (1358 HKT)




Rosie Tomkins takes a look at the protective suits that are worn by some Ebola medical workers in Africa.



Enormous risk for caregivers

October 12, 2014 -- Updated 2057 GMT (0457 HKT)




They dedicate their lives to saving others, but as Ebola spreads, health care workers must also focus on themselves. 



How could nurse contract Ebola?

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 2221 GMT (0621 HKT)




On the surface, the nurse seemed to have taken all the precautions needed to protect herself from Ebola. 



How hospitals handle Ebola patients

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1252 GMT (2052 HKT)




First, a Texas hospital came under fire for releasing a sick Liberian man without testing him for Ebola.



9 ways travelers handle Ebola anxiety

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1833 GMT (0233 HKT)




With Ebola panic traveling faster than a 787, travelers trapped in metal containers at 30,000 feet are quickly splitting into camps. 



First Ebola death in U.S.

October 8, 2014 -- Updated 1919 GMT (0319 HKT)




Thomas Eric Duncan left Africa for the United States, by official accounts, a healthy man. Just over two weeks later, he passed away.



Protection from Ebola

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1242 GMT (2042 HKT)




From full-body suits to improvised face coverings, here's a look at ways health workers protect themselves in some of the hardest hit areas.



Ebola drugs are in the works

October 8, 2014 -- Updated 1158 GMT (1958 HKT)




Scientists racing to develop something that will stop the largest Ebola epidemic in history are trying a variety of experimental drugs on patients. 



Who are the American Ebola patients?

October 6, 2014 -- Updated 1657 GMT (0057 HKT)




Here is a look at the American patients who have been diagnosed with this deadly virus. 



Can you catch Ebola on a plane?

October 7, 2014 -- Updated 2350 GMT (0750 HKT)




You're settling into your tiny coach seat on your next business trip, and the person next to you starts coughing. 



Ebola outbreak in West Africa

October 12, 2014 -- Updated 1535 GMT (2335 HKT)




Click through our gallery as we track the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. 







 









  Health Resources from HealthGrades   
The stages of depression treatment			  
7 mistakes people with MS make			  
Have heart disease? 8 facts that may …			  
6 facts about biologics for Crohn's			  
Preventing food allergies			       













   



Loading weather data ...














Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport
Tools & Widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN México | العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe


© 2014  Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | AdChoices  | Advertise with us | License our content | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts




  







