Ebola Could Become The Biggest Humanitarian Disaster In A Generation | JustmeansEbola Could Become The Biggest Humanitarian Disaster In A Generation | Justmeans

Jump to navigation


 


      
  US: 866.508.0993 | Outside US: 802.535.3215 | Log in



LinkedIn
Twitter
RSS
Facebook
Google+




Search form

Search 












Justmeans

The largest distribution network for CSR and sustainability news, data, and content.





Ebola Could Become The Biggest Humanitarian Disaster In A Generation


Blog Entry by Sangeeta Haindl in Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship September 26, 2014 - 8:45am Monday, September 29, 2014 - 3:30am 


(3BL Media/Justmeans) - Door-to-door searches during a three-day curfew in Sierra identified more than 350 suspected new cases of Ebola, according to a U.S. diplomat, as the American public health institute the Centres for Disease Control (CDC) has been heavily involved in the emergency response. The United Nations has warned that the Ebola infections will treble to 20,000 by November if efforts to tackle the outbreak are not stepped up. Over the past six months, an Ebola outbreak has affected five countries in West Africa (Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra Leone).  The current outbreak is unprecedented in scale and geographical reach: the present West Africa outbreak has a higher caseload than all other previous Ebola crises combined. 
Scientists have warned that swift action is needed to curb the exponential climb in the Ebola outbreak. That is why the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation Corporate Citizenship Centre (CCC) hosted an urgent conference call on 26 September to discuss the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. The call was geared for officials from donor companies, corporate foundations, local chambers of commerce, humanitarian aid organisations and the media. It clearly outlined ways that the U.S. business community can help, as companies are mobilising their expertise, capabilities, and resources to assist with the Ebola outbreak in Africa. They have pledged $4.8 million in cash and additional in kind contributions in support of relief and recovery efforts. For example, Coca Cola has donated medical supplies, safe drinking water and cash, while Ecolab, a multi-national provider of hygiene products, has given 1.8m worth in germ sanitizers and disinfectants.
The CCC conference call provided everyone with the latest information on the humanitarian response and the efforts required to contain the disease. Dr. Beth Bell, Director of the National Centre for Emerging and Zoonotic Infectious Diseases at CDC, is one of the leading experts on the response to the Ebola outbreak, joined this phone conversation along with others from the UN, UPS Foundation, Samaritan’s Purse and International Medical Corps. 
The Governments of the affected countries have been responding to the outbreak since it first emerged in March 2014. A number of external issues such as difficulty in accessing affected countries and communities; internal dynamics (low capacity of national health systems and the unavailability of the requisite medical personnel and goods on a scale adequate to prevent, trace and treat the disease) and epidemiological reasons limit these Governments’ capacity.
In the coming days and weeks these nations need global support to get through the immediate crisis. Thankfully, the world is responding. U.S. President Obama has committed 3,000 troops and huge resources to take on this disease. While the UN held the first ever Security Council meeting on a health issue and set up a dedicated mission to join the fight against Ebola.  If we don't get this situation under control in the next six to eight weeks, it could become the biggest humanitarian disaster in a generation.
Photo Credit: Wikipedia
Venture Philanthropy • Funding • Cause Global • Best Practices • Green Companies • Social Entrepreneurship • Nonprofit Organizations • Social Innovation • Social InvestmentSocial Innovation and Entrepreneurship 

Add new comment

Your name 



Subject 



Comment *


More information about text formats
Text format 
Filtered HTMLFull HTMLPlain textFMR Icons

Filtered HTMLWeb page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.Lines and paragraphs break automatically.Non-standard font styles will be removed, but basic text formatting like bold and italic will be preserved.Full HTMLWeb page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.Lines and paragraphs break automatically.Non-standard font styles will be removed, but basic text formatting like bold and italic will be preserved.Plain textNo HTML tags allowed.Web page addresses and e-mail addresses turn into links automatically.Lines and paragraphs break automatically.FMR Icons








By submitting this form, you accept the Mollom privacy policy. 










Sangeeta Haindlhttp://serendipitypr.co.uksangeeta.haindl@gmail.comSangeeta Haindl writes on social innovation, social enterprise, and social entrepreneurs. She is the owner of Serendipity PR, in London, U.K., where she works with high-profile brands and organizations in the public, non-profit, and corporate sectors, winning awards for her work from the communications industry. She describes herself as a Spiritual Entrepreneur, Conscious Explorer, and Futurist. She enjoys helping others, paying it forward, and being a mum.


Email: sangeeta.haindl@gmail.com

Website: http://serendipitypr.co.uk

Twitter: @SangeetaHaindl


LinkedIn: Sangeeta Haindl

Serendipity PR & Media ConsultancyLondonUnited Kingdom


More Posts by This Author



      
          Oct 13    
          Nodding Syndrome: Neurological And Disabling Disease Affecting Children In Africa 

      
          Oct 13    
          Who Has "American Banker" Named The Most Powerful Women in Finance for 2014? 

      
          Oct 6    
          The World Has Heard of ‘HeForShe’ But Have You Heard of ‘She Works’? 

      
          Oct 6    
          Have You Signed Up To Meat Free Monday Yet?  

      
          Oct 6    
          Right Now, Someone is Going Hungry  

      
          Sep 26    
          The World’s Financially Vulnerable—Including Americans—Need More Than Basic Financial Literacy  

      
          Sep 26    
          Star TV’s SMJ Live With Amir Khan Is Very Much Part of India’s Social Change  

      
          Sep 26    
          Ebola Could Become The Biggest Humanitarian Disaster In A Generation 

      
          Sep 22    
          New Study Says Schizophrenia Associated With Smoking Tobacco  

      
          Sep 22    
          Working Towards a TB-Free India 

      
          Sep 22    
          Domestic Violence Tops The American News Agenda    

      
          Sep 15    
          A Powerful Collaboration Highlights the Value of FSC® To Protect Our Forests 

      
          Sep 15    
          India Works To Become One of the Top Five Scientific Powers In The World 

      
          Sep 15    
          Urban Visionaries César and Rafael Pelli to Talk About Next-Gen Buildings And Cities   

      
          Sep 8    
          The Reality of Diabetes in Children And Youths 

      
          Sep 8    
          H&M Sees Opportunities In Ethiopia  

      
          Sep 8    
          General Motors Employs More Women Than Any Other Car Manufacturer  

      
          Aug 31    
          Out of the Dark: A Historical Horror Film with More Than A Spooky Surprise 

      
          Aug 31    
          International Day of the Girl Child 

      
          Aug 31    
          How Do You Plan To Feed 50 Million Global Refugees?  








Copyright © 2013 Justmeans  •  Privacy  •  Terms of Use





















