
	
	Joint Statement on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Outbreak


	
	Joint Statement on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Outbreak







 



























You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.


	Turn on more accessible mode



	Turn off more accessible mode



	Skip Ribbon Commands



	Skip to main content









This page location is:

ICAONewsroomJoint Statement on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Outbreak




Sign In










































		 
		 

 | 




English   Français    Español    عربي    中文    Русский    |









 

























ICAOCurrently selected
About ICAOStrategic Objectives
SafetyAir Navigation Capacity and EfficiencySecurity and FacilitationEconomic Development of Air TransportEnvironmental Protection
Meetings & Events
Upcoming Meetings & EventsRecently Completed Meetings & Events
PublicationsTrainingOnline StoreEmployment











Newsroom





Press ReleasesSpeechesPublications
ICAO JournalMRTD ReportTraining Report
SubscribeEvent AccreditationContact Us



















ICAO > Newsroom > Joint Statement on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Outbreak


		
	
	
			Joint Statement on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) Outbreak
		










Page Image


Image Caption







Resume


Page Content​18 August 2014 – The current Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) outbreak began in Guinea in December 2013. This outbreak now involves community transmission in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone and recently an ill traveller from Liberia infected a small number of people in Nigeria with whom he had direct contact. On 8 August 2014, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the Ebola virus disease outbreak in West Africa a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) in accordance with the International Health Regulations (2005). 
 
In order to support the global efforts to contain the spread of the disease and provide a coordinated international response for the travel and tourism sector, the heads of the World Health Organization (WHO), the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO), Airports Council International (ACI), International Air Transport Association (IATA) and the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) decided to activate a Travel and Transport Task Force which will monitor the situation and provide timely information to the travel and tourism sector as well as to travellers.
 
The risk of transmission of Ebola virus disease during air travel is low. Unlike infections such as influenza or tuberculosis, Ebola is not spread by breathing air (and the airborne particles it contains) from an infected person. Transmission requires direct contact with blood, secretions, organs or other body fluids of infected living or dead persons or animals, all unlikely exposures for the average traveller. Travellers are, in any event, advised to avoid all such contacts and routinely practice careful hygiene, like hand washing. 
 
The risk of getting infected on an aircraft is also small as sick persons usually feel so unwell that they cannot travel and infection requires direct contact with the body fluids of the infected person. Most infections in Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, are taking place in the community when family members or friends take care of someone who is ill or when funeral preparation and burial ceremonies do not follow strict infection prevention and control measures. 
 
A second important place where transmission can occur is in clinics and other health care settings, when health care workers, patients, and other persons have unprotected contact with a person who is infected. In Nigeria, cases are related only to persons who had direct contact with a single traveller who was hospitalized upon arrival in Lagos.
 
It is important to note that a person who is infected is only able to spread the virus to others after the infected person has started to have symptoms. A person usually has no symptoms for two to 21 days (the “incubation period”). Symptoms include fever, weakness, muscle pain, headache and sore throat. This is followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, and in some cases, bleeding. 
 
The risk of a traveller becoming infected with the Ebola virus during a visit to the affected countries and developing disease after returning is very low, even if the visit includes travel to areas in which cases have been reported. 
 
If a person, including a traveller, stayed in the areas where Ebola cases have been recently reported, he/she should seek medical attention at the first sign of illness (fever, headache, achiness, sore throat, diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain, rash, red eyes, and in some cases, bleeding). Early treatment can improve prognosis.
 
Strengthened international cooperation is needed, and should support action to contain the virus, stop transmission to other countries and mitigate the effects in those affected. 
 
Affected countries are requested to conduct exit screening of all persons at international airports, seaports and major land crossings, for unexplained febrile illness consistent with potential Ebola infection. Any person with an illness consistent with EVD should not be allowed to travel unless the travel is part of an appropriate medical evacuation. There should be no international travel of Ebola contacts or cases, unless the travel is part of an appropriate medical evacuation.
 
Non-affected countries need to strengthen the capacity to detect and immediately contain new cases, while avoiding measures that will create unnecessary interference with international travel or trade. The World Health Organization (WHO) does not recommend any ban on international travel or trade, in accordance with advice from the WHO Ebola Emergency Committee. 
 
Travel restrictions and active screening of passengers on arrival at sea ports, airports or ground crossings in non-affected countries that do not share borders with affected countries are not currently recommended by WHO. 
 
Worldwide, countries should provide their citizens traveling to Ebola-affected countries with accurate and relevant information on the Ebola outbreak and measures to reduce the risk of exposure.
 
 
Useful links:
 
WHO advice for travellers


Arabic (270 Kb)Chinese (250 Kb)English (233 Kb)French (233 Kb)Russian (310 Kb)Spanish (234 Kb)


















  Help 



Terms & ConditionsSite IndexLinksFAQWeb Support








  Contact Us 



HeadquartersRegional Offices








  Regional Offices Websites 



Asia and Pacific (APAC) Office, BangkokEastern and Southern African (ESAF) Office, NairobiEuropean and North Atlantic (EUR/NAT) Office, ParisMiddle East (MID) Office, CairoNorth American, Central American and Caribbean (NACC) Office, Mexico CitySouth American (SAM) Office, LimaWestern and Central African (WACAF) Office, Dakar
















© International Civil Aviation Organization - ICAO



































