African Union Sending Medical Support to Fight EbolaAfrican Union Sending Medical Support to Fight Ebola




Home
About Us
Print Editions
Subscribe
RSS Feeds
 


Epoch Times on Facebook
Epoch Times on Twitter
Epoch Times on Google+
Epoch Times RSS Feed






  |


					      Languages
					    


Bulgarian
Chinese
Czech
French
German
Hebrew
Indonesian
Italian
Japanese
Korean
Persian
Portuguese
Romanian
Russian
Slovak
Spanish
Swedish
Turkish
Ukrainian
Vietnamese






Epoch Times

























World, Africa
African Union Sending Medical Support to Fight Ebola
 
By Associated Press | September 9, 2014Last Updated: September 9, 2014 8:12 am
 




Pinterest
LinkedIn
ReddIt
Stumbleupon
Tumblr
Email







SIGN UP FOR:


 Daily Newsletter



 EPOCH 10



News You Need to know.




 Weekly Newsletter



 CHINA D-BRIEF



Real Storyon China.









A healthcare worker prepares Ebola personal protective equipment before entering the Ebola isolation ward at Kenema Government Hospital, in Kenema that is in the Eastern Province around 300km, (186 miles), from the capital city of Freetown in Kenema, Sierra Leone, Tuesday, Aug. 12, 2014. (AP Photo/ Michael Duff)





More in AfricaYemen Police Shoot Kill 4 Shiite ProtestersWHO: Liberia Will See Thousands of New Ebola CasesSomalia Attack Leaves 12 Civilians Dead, Say Police





ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia—The World Health Organization has changed how its staff are responding to an Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone after a scientist working with the agency was infected with the disease last month, a spokeswoman said Tuesday.
A second WHO health care worker, a doctor, has now been infected, the U.N. health agency announced Monday. It has not released any more information about the doctor, but Emory University Hospital in the United States has said it is preparing on Tuesday to receive an American infected with Ebola while working in West Africa.
The Ebola outbreak sweeping West Africa has killed more than 2,000 people and has taken a particularly high toll on health care workers. After a Senegalese epidemiologist with WHO tested positive for the disease, the agency conducted an investigation into how he became infected.
While WHO is not releasing the results of the investigation, spokeswoman Nyka Alexander said Tuesday that staff living and working quarters in Sierra Leone have been expanded to make them less cramped and they no longer share living space with officials from other agencies. Changes were also made to working procedures, including more routine temperature checks for everyone coming to the WHO office and living quarters, Alexander said.
She said the investigation report was “pretty clear” in revealing how the epidemiologist was infected but said the agency wouldn’t be releasing details.
“It’s not a new or unexpected risk,” she said. Epidemiologists do not treat patients but are sometimes involved in contact-tracing to follow up potential cases, and liaising with safe-burial teams for Ebola victims.
Alexander said a second investigation has now begun into how the WHO doctor was infected, and the agency has also recommended the Sierra Leone government stop accepting new patients into the Ebola clinic where the incident occurred.
Of the more than 3,500 people believed to be infected in Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal, about 10 percent have been health care workers. The hardest-hit countries already had too few doctors and nurses before the outbreak, and the toll has only made it harder to respond to the crisis and recruit more caretakers.
While most of the people staffing treatment centers are locals, experts say several hundred more foreign health care workers are still needed. The African Union promised Monday to send at least 100 people to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea for a six-month medical support mission. The European Union will give 5 million euros ($6.4 million) to fund the mission. It was not clear when the first teams would arrive.
The United States and Britain also announced Monday that they will build new treatment centers in West Africa. The American one, in Liberia, will be exclusively for treating health care workers. Britain is also sending military engineers and medical staff to run its clinic in Sierra Leone that will include a section to provide high-quality specialized care for health workers.
Tags: African UnionEbolaCategory: World AfricaYou may also likeSierra Leone to Hold Lockdown Amid Ebola CrisisEbola is Surging in Places it Had Been Beaten Back WHO: Liberia Will See Thousands of New Ebola Cases

 
 





















 











Home
New York
US
China
World
Opinion
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Dining
Arts & Culture
Entertainment
Life
Travel
Sports
Photo Galleries
Video
Forum
 







Copyright © 2000-

Subscribe
Advertise
About Us
Contact Us
Print Editions
RSS Feeds
Become a Blogger
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright Policy











Top



















