Guinea Bissau says closes border with Guinea over Ebola fearsGuinea Bissau says closes border with Guinea over Ebola fears
















We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy.


























Thomson Reuters Foundation








 LOGIN|SUBSCRIBE


						DONATE

					
















News
Trustlaw
Excellence in Journalism
Services
Jobs Market
About Us

View full desktop version
















Ebola patient at Emory University Hospital says he's recovering
Tropical Storm Ana close to hurricane status as it nears Hawaii
EPA approval of Dow herbicide violates law, critics charge
Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold
U.S. hits targets around Kobani for humanitarian purposes -Allen





FIND US ON




























								
									U.S. Supreme Court blocks Texas abortion restrictions

								
							









									
										Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold

									
								









									
										Ethiopia's fast-growing capital aims to become greener and cleaner

									
								









									
										Freak Nepal blizzards kill at least 20, including hikers, ...

									
								









									
										Syrian Kurds indicating targets as U.S. steps up Kobani strikes

									
								









									
										Economists urge Modi not to squeeze job scheme for rural poor

									
								









									
										Female students beaten, abused by Sudan security-rights group

									
								









									
										UN refugee chief says EU should let in more Syrian refugees

									
								









									
										Sri Lanka bans foreigners from old war zone amid UN probe

									
								









									
										Libyan army, residents battle Islamist militants in Benghazi

									
								









									
										Bomb training vital as Kurds retake Islamic State ground in Iraq

									
								









									
										Can the world produce enough food for 2 bln more people?

									
								









									
										Houthi rebels take over Yemen's Hodeidah port -residents

									
								









									
										Brazil election candidates spar over corruption, nepotism

									
								









									
										Global climate deal should be legally binding in parts: US

									
								









									
										Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding

									
								









									
										Nigerians demand release of 200 kidnapped schoolgirls

									
								









									
										WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa

									
								









									
										Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola

									
								









									
										Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response

									
								









									
										Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest 

									
								









									
										Away from Kobani, Syria's other civil war rages on

									
								









									
										I’ve rarely been so terrified 

									
								









									
										WHO may declare Nigeria and Senegal Ebola-free within days

									
								









									
										Investigative journalism's "golden age" faces surveillance threat

									
								









									
										UK firms must report efforts to end slavery in supply chains 

									
								










Guinea Bissau says closes border with Guinea over Ebola fears
Source: Reuters - Wed, 13 Aug 2014 11:36 GMT

Author: Reuters












								More on:

																							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    	Health and Disease
							    							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    
						    

A scientist separates blood cells from plasma cells to isolate any Ebola RNA in order to test for the virus at the European Mobile Laboratory in Gueckedou April 3, 2014. Picture taken April 3, 2014. REUTERS/Misha Hussain 




















(Adds quote, background)
BISSAU, Aug 13 (Reuters) - Guinea-Bissau has decided to close its frontier with eastern neighbour Guinea in a bid to prevent the entry of the deadly Ebola virus, Prime Minister Domingos Simoes Pereira said.
The disease has killed more than 1,000 people in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone in the world's worst outbreak of Ebola, and the World Health Organization has called it an international emergency. Three people have also died in Nigeria.
"Guinea-Bissau has decided to close its border with Guinea-Conakry from Aug. 12 given the threat of the Ebola virus," Pereira told a news conference late on Tuesday.
The order will likely mean the closure of official road border points, but it will be difficult to police the long and porous frontier in rural areas away from formal highways.
Governments have taken a range of measures to prevent the spread of Ebola across international borders.
Ivory Coast on Monday banned air travellers from the three worst-hit countries, while Ghana on Tuesday postponed the start of the academic year for at least two weeks at universities and colleges to allow screening measures to be put in place. (Reporting by Alfred Dabo; Writing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg; Editing by)








We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




























										
										Ebola outbreak in West Africa











		RELATED CONTENT

	









																	INFOGRAPHIC: Ebola outbreak in West Africa
															




        			
            										Germany urges its citizens to leave Sierra Leone, Guinea, Liberia ...
						
					
        			




																	WHO backs use of experimental Ebola drugs in W. Africa epidemic
															













SPOTLIGHT: Ebola outbreak in West Africa





Europe urged to end plight of 600,000 ghost people





FACTBOX: How does one end up stateless in Europe?





SPOTLIGHT: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 





Girls at risk as Bangladesh mulls lowering age of marriage







			TOPICAL CONTENT

		









		                			
			                														Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola
										
									
								






		                			
			                														WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa
										
									
								








		LATEST SLIDESHOW

	








5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls




















Nearly one in five adolescent girls is out of school. That’s 65 mln girls worldwide.
Here are 5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls







					FEATURED JOBS

				







	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Spain, France and North Africa

	                


						
												
												
												
												
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 25 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Salary: TBD  | Location:  Spain

					




	                	
	                	Climate Resilience Editor/Project Manager

	                


						
												
												
												
												
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 01 November 2014  | Job type: Contract  | Salary: TBD

					




	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Latin America 

	                


						
												
												
												
						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 31 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Location:  Argentina

					


































Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy


Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility



RSS
Newsletters
Turn off mobile site switching







Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation





Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility










View full desktop version


Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
























