William Pooley, 29, was the first British person to contract the Ebola virus…William Pooley, 29, was the first British person to contract the Ebola virus…Search Images Maps Play YouTube News Gmail Drive More »Send Feedback | Web History | Help | Sign inHomeHomeProfilePeoplePhotosCommunitiesEventsHangoutsPagesLocalSettingsFeedbackHelp  ·  RegionPrivacy & Terms  ·  Maps TermsStart a hangout Pinky PinksterIB Chem SL 2014-2016Pinky PinksterCurrent Events  -  2014-09-14 William Pooley, 29, was the first British person to contract the Ebola virus disease during the outbreak in West Africa has been discharged after making full recovery. While Pooley was working as a volunteer nurse in one of the worst affected countries, Sierra Leone, he contracted the virus. In the beginning of the attack of the disease, he started feeling sick and so, needed a blood test. After the confirmations from the World Health Organization doctors, he immediately received the terrible news. “I was worried that I was going to die, I was worried about my family and I was scared,” said Pooley. Afterwards on the 24th of August, he was flown back to London to receive the treatment. In the process to his recovery, he has been treated in a special isolation at the Royal Free Hospital, provided with the Ebola experimental drug ZMapp, a 12 hour infusion of antibodies, specifically given to only six patients. He made his full recovery a week later. “I was very lucky in several ways; firstly in the standard of care I received, which is a world apart from what people are receiving in West Africa at the moment.” “And my symptoms never progressed to the worst stage of the disease, I’ve seen people dying horrible deaths, I had some unpleasant symptoms, but nothing compared to the worst of the disease.”  There has been an estimation of up to 20,000 people predicted, will be infected during this outbreak. Fifty one percent those infected have died, extending from 41% in Sierra Leone to 66% in Guinea. After reading this article, I felt grateful for Pooley whom have become the first British patient to make a full recovery. However, I feel depressed for the African patients infected are suffering horribly and the majority of them are experiencing the worst stages of the disease. The Ebola virus disease has become one of the most deadly diseases ever since the outbreak in West Africa. Its symptoms include high fever, bleeding, vomiting, diarrhea, and damage towards the central nervous system. African patients infected with this deadly disease are going through hell every single day, and the minority whom have not been infected, wake up every day in fear, not knowing when they’re going to be soon infected. I feel terrified and demoralized, thinking that every day you wake up to know that death is soon reaching towards you and you have family members, whom are already mourning for you, knowing that they cannot do anything; doctors on the other hand, are conducting experiments yearning to find the cure for the disease and are treating you drugs, hoping that it will make you feel better. I feel that this article represents a huge significance towards everyday life. It is really important to realize that you should cherish every single moment of your life because you never know what might happen, and you wouldn’t want to regret it before it does occur. You should also learn to be aware of things happening around you, because once you miss a single moment, it’s gone for eternity. In addition, always lend a helping hand in the need of others, because you never know how much your help towards others, could mean so much to one person. ﻿British Ebola patient dischargedbbc.com12 commentsNapol Worachat+232  Any good news is always hopeful during stressful and depressing situations. I hope that this experimental drug ZMapp becomes commercially available soon, so that the other  infected people can also get the drug and start to recover. Pooley is very lucky to receive the level of care that he got. He is right in that he got much better care than the people in Africa. Perhaps the level of care the people get in Africa will improve soon.I strongly agree with your opinions on the article, Pinky. Living during a virus outbreak is very scary, because you know that you will get infected any time soon. However, living in a scary place also motivates you to make the most of your life before you possibly get infected. In a way, it's a double-edged sword, only that it's not really worth it. Of course, living during an outbreak also makes you appreciate life more (if you survive the outbreak, that is). It is a good thing that doctors are always trying to improve our medicine to combat viruses. Sure, viruses will constantly evolve to resist the drug, but by constantly improving our drugs, we can at least prevent the viruses from wiping us out. I hope the Ebola outbreak will be quelled soon.﻿Sabrena Baiagern HS+121  Pinky - excellent article and great insight!  Napol - very constructive feedback, also excellent insight into the situation and its extent into our everyday lives.﻿Add a comment...