 CDC - Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips: Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials - FluTrackers CDC - Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips: Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials - FluTrackers
















Tracking Infectious Diseases since 2006
























FluTrackers.com Inc. 
is a 501(c)(3) charity



















Nederlandse taal
    

Foro de Español de FluTrackers
    

Francophones des FluTrackers
    


Forum Italiano
    


FluTrackers
Latest Posts
    

























 www www.flutrackers.com


























 
FluTrackers
> National & International Government & NGO Preparation & Response
> CDC
> US CDC Ebola Information and Guidances



 
	 CDC - Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips: Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials











User Name

Remember Me?


Password



















Register
FAQ



Donate





Search
Today's Posts
Mark Forums Read




















		
		 
		


Thread Tools


Search this Thread


Display Modes












			 
			#1  
			
			
			
			
			
		



			
				September 26th, 2014, 09:30 AM
			
			
			










Ray



Registered User

 


Join Date: Sep 2014
Location: CA

						Posts: 97
					
 













CDC - Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips: Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials





http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/outbrea...ips-top10.html

Top 10 Ebola Response Planning Tips: Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials











On this Page

Background
Purpose
Public Health Preparedness Capabilities Necessary for Ebola Response
Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials
 

Background

West  Africa is experiencing the largest Ebola outbreak in history. A severe,  often fatal disease, Ebola can be spread in several ways to others:  through direct contact (through broken skin or mucous membranes) with a  sick person's blood or body fluids or objects that have been  contaminated with infected body fluids. Ebola symptoms usually begin  after an incubation period ranging from 2 days to 21 days.
During  Ebola outbreaks, the disease can spread quickly within families and  healthcare settings. Rapid identification of cases is critical. Proper  personal protective equipment (PPE), such as masks, gloves, gowns, and  goggles must be used, and proper cleaning and sterilization techniques  must be followed to prevent spread. See CDC’s 2014 Ebola Outbreak in West Africa web page for more information about the outbreak, including current case counts and transmission of Ebola.
Purpose

This  document identifies rapidly emerging CDC guidelines for Ebola  applicable to the public health preparedness national standards for  state and local planning. It will:
guide planning and readiness for Ebola response at the state and local levels
assist  state and local public health officials in assessing their  jurisdictions’ level of readiness for a potential Ebola response  (including individual patients and persons under investigation);
allow state and local public health systems to identify preparedness and operational gaps relative to Ebola
identify resources that will assist state and local jurisdictions in closing self-identified gaps
Public Health Preparedness Capabilities Necessary for Ebola Response

In  March 2011, CDC published national capability standards to guide the  development of state and local public health emergency preparedness  efforts. This document, Public Health Preparedness Capabilities: National Standards for State and Local Planning,  describes the 15 preparedness capabilities necessary for a robust state  and local public health emergency response. In January 2012, the U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of the Assistant  Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) published national  capability standards to align preparedness and response efforts of  healthcare systems, healthcare coalitions, and healthcare organizations.  This document, Healthcare Preparedness Capabilities: National Guidance for Healthcare System Preparedness,  describes eight preparedness capabilities that foster integration of  the healthcare sector and public health response efforts. Ebola planning  and response requires readiness in six key public health preparedness  capabilities and one healthcare preparedness capability including:
Healthcare System Preparedness (Healthcare Preparedness Capability #1)
Emergency Public Information and Warning (Public Health Preparedness Capability #4)
Information Sharing (Public Health Preparedness/Healthcare Preparedness Capability #6)
Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (Public Health Preparedness Capability #11)
Public Health Laboratory Testing (Public Health Preparedness Capability #12)
Public Health Surveillance and Epidemiological Investigation (Public Health Preparedness Capability #13)
Responder Safety and Health (Public Health Preparedness/Healthcare Preparedness Capability #14)
Ebola Readiness Self-Assessment for State and Local Public Health Officials

The  following resources may help state and local jurisdictions address  self-identified gaps in Ebola response planning. You are encouraged to  review the online resources frequently as information may change over  time.
Healthcare System Preparedness

Considering the  need for appropriate care and infection control of identified patients  and persons under investigation, coordinate with healthcare facilities,  healthcare coalitions, and emergency management to develop local and  state emergency operations plans that address the concerns and unique  needs of healthcare facilities for Ebola response. Assess the readiness  for Ebola response within your jurisdiction’s hospitals, inpatient and  outpatient healthcare facilities, clinician practices, and other  clinical settings. Specifically, ensure that clinicians who may care for  Ebola patients or persons under investigation are trained on the  following guidance documents and consider the resource needs (such as  PPE and other ancillary supplies) that would be needed to implement the  guidance.
Infection  Prevention and Control Recommendations for Hospitalized Patients with  Known or Suspected Ebola Hemorrhagic Fever in U. S. Hospitals
CDC Health Alert Network (HAN) Update: Guidelines for Evaluation of U. S. Patients Suspected of Having Ebola Virus Disease
Interim  Guidance for Specimen Collection, Transport, Testing, and Submission  for Patients with Suspected Infection with Ebola Virus Disease
Ebola Virus Disease Information for Clinicians in U.S. Healthcare Settings
Clinician Outreach and Communication Activity (COCA) Call- What U.S. Hospitals Need to Know to Prepare for Ebola Virus Disease
Interim  Guidance for Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems and 9-1-1 Public  Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) for Management of Patients with Known or  Suspected Ebola Virus Disease in the United States
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ): Safe Management of Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in U. S. Hospitals
Interim Guidance for Environmental Infection Control in Hospitals for Ebola Virus
Emergency Public Information and Warning

Prepare  risk communication messages for internal staff and the public including  general information on Ebola, risks to the public, risk of  transmission, and protective measures. The following links provide CDC  resources to assist in developing jurisdictional risk communication  strategies and plans.
CDC Digital Press Kit: 2014 Ebola Outbreak
CDC Questions and Answers on Ebola
Podcasts
Information Sharing

Ensure  appropriate personnel are enrolled in information systems and receive  CDC Health Alert Network (HAN) notifications. Maintain situational  awareness within the jurisdiction by regularly visiting the CDC Ebola  website for the latest Ebola information, guidance documents, current  case counts, maps of affected areas, and other CDC resources.  Disseminate information to state and local response partners, including  hospitals, healthcare systems, primary care associations, provider  organizations, local public health partners, and emergency management  partners.
CDC EVD website
CDC’s Epi-X system
CDC HANs
CDC COCA website
Advice for Humanitarian Aid Workers Traveling to Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, or Sierra Leone during the Ebola Outbreak
Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (Travel-related Information and Public Health Interventions)

Ensure  that state and local epidemiologic and medical staff have the latest  recommendations for travelers and review the CDC Interim Guidance for  Monitoring and Movement of Persons with EVD Exposure. This interim  guidance is intended to provide public health authorities and other  partners with a framework for appropriate public health interventions  and travel options for persons exposed to Ebola. State and local public  health staff should also assure that travelers have access to current  information on the CDC Travelers’ Health website, which includes travel  notices and Ebola outbreak information.
CDC Interim Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with EVD Exposure
CDC’s Travelers’ Health website
Case Definition for Ebola Virus Disease
Public Health Laboratory Testing

Review updated laboratory guidance.
CDC  Interim Guidance for Specimen Collection, Transport, Testing, and  Submission for Patients with Suspected Infection with Ebola Virus  Disease. This guidance provides laboratorians and other healthcare  personnel with updated information on handling specimens for testing  from persons under investigation for Ebola virus disease.
Ensure  that clinical laboratories review their lab safety protocols and  procedures, including proper use of PPE, and have appropriate and  sufficient PPE quantities.
Guidance for Safely Donning and Removing PPE[PDF - 2 pages]
Public Health Surveillance and Epidemiological Investigation

Share surveillance definitions across the public health jurisdiction.
Case Definition for Ebola Virus Disease
Ensure epidemiological tools are available to state and local epidemiologic staff and have a plan for implementation.
Interim Guidance for Monitoring and Movement of Persons with Ebola Virus Disease Exposure
Interim  Guidance for Specimen Collection, Transport, Testing, and Submission  for Patients with Suspected Infection with Ebola Virus Disease
Responder Safety and Health

Ensure  that state and local stockpiles of PPE are adequate; ensure that  responders and clinicians have been trained on appropriate use.
Sequence for Putting on and Removing Personal Protective Equipment[PDF - 2 pages]
Ensure clinicians and responders have reviewed CDC guidance on worker safety.
Tools for Protecting Healthcare Personnel
Guidance for the Selection and Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in Healthcare Settings[PDF - 49 pages]
Sequence for Putting on and Removing Personal Protective Equipment[PDF - 2 pages]
FAQ: Safe Management of Patients with Ebola Virus Disease in U. S. Hospitals
Interim  Guidance for Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems and 9-1-1 Public  Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) for Management of Patients with Known or  Suspected Ebola Virus Disease in the United States







					
						Last edited by sharon sanders; September 26th, 2014 at 09:43 AM.
					
					
						Reason: format
					
				















Ray

View Public Profile
Find all posts by Ray

















«
Previous Thread
			|
			Next Thread
»







			Currently Active Users Viewing This Thread: 1 (0 members and 1 guests)




 







Thread Tools
Search this Thread





 Show Printable Version
 Email this Page











Search this Thread:

Advanced Search






Display Modes





 Linear Mode
 Switch to Hybrid Mode
 Switch to Threaded Mode
















		Posting Rules
	





You may not post new threads
You may not post replies
You may not post attachments
You may not edit your posts

BB code is On
Smilies are On
[IMG] code is On
HTML code is On

Forum Rules



















Disclaimers:


The reader is responsible for discerning the validity, factuality or implications of information posted here, be it fictional or based on real events. Moderators on this forum make every effort to review the material posted on this site however, it is not realistically possible for our staff to manually review each post.


The content of posts on this site, including but not limited to links to other web sites, are the expressed opinion of the original authors or posters and are not endorsed by, or representative of the opinions of, the owners or administration of this website. The posts on this website are the opinion of the specific author or poster and should not be construed as statements of advice or factual information. 


Not all posts on this website are intended as truthful or factual assertion by their authors. NO posts on this website should be considered factual information on face value alone. Users are encouraged to USE DISCERNMENT and do their own follow up research while reading and posting on this website. FluTrackers.com Inc. reserves the right to make changes to, corrections and/or remove entirely at any time posts made on this website without notice. In addition, FluTrackers.com Inc. disclaims any and all liability for damages incurred directly or indirectly as a result of a post on this website.


This site is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. You should not assume that this site is error-free or that it will be suitable for the particular purpose which you have in mind when using it. In no event shall FluTrackers.com Inc. be liable for any special, incidental, indirect or consequential damages of any kind, or any damages whatsoever, including, without limitation, those resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether or not advised of the possibility of damage, and on any theory of liability, arising out of or in connection with the use or performance of this site or other documents which are referenced by or linked to this site.


Finally, FluTrackers.com Inc. reserves the right to delete, correct, or make changes to any post on this website without notice at any time for any reason. 


Fair Use Notice:

This site may contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner. Users may make such material available in an effort to advance awareness and understanding of issues relating to public health, civil rights, economics, individual rights, international affairs, liberty, science & technology, etc. We believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the US Copyright Law. In accordance with Title 17 U.S.C.Section 107, the material on this site is distributed to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes.


 In accordance with industry accepted best practices we ask that users limit their copy / paste of copyrighted material to the relevant portions of the article you wish to discuss and no more than 1 paragraph, and in no case more than 50% of the source material provide a link back to the original article and provide your original comments / criticism in your post with the article. Please remember you are responsible for what you post on the internet and you could be sued by the original copyright holder if you do not honor these rules.


If you are a legal copyright holder or a designated agent for such and you believe a post on this website falls outside the boundaries of "Fair Use" and legitimately infringes on yours or your clients copyright


we may be contacted concerning copyright matters at:


FluTrackers.com Inc.

c/o Sharon Sanders

1676 Hibiscus Avenue

Winter Park, Florida 32789

Phone: 407-745-1513

E-Mail: flutrackers@earthlink.net


In accordance with section 512 of the U.S. Copyright Act our contact information has been registered with the United States Copyright Office. "Safe Harbor" noticing procedures as outlined in the DMCA apply to this website concerning all 3rd party posts published herein.


If notice is given of an alleged copyright violation we will act expeditiously to remove or disable access to the material(s) in question.


All 3rd party material posted on this website is the copyright of the respective owners / authors. FluTrackers.com Inc. makes no claim of copyright on such material.


For more information please visit:
http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml


Please be aware any communications sent complaining about a post on this website may be posted publicly at the discretion of the administration.


FluTrackers Does Not Provide Any Medical Advice:


FluTrackers, Inc. does not provide medical advice. Information on this web site is collected from various internet resources, and the FluTrackers board of directors makes no warranty to the safety, efficacy, correctness or completeness of the information posted on this site by any author or poster.


The information collated here is for instructional and/or discussion purposes only and is NOT intended to diagnose or treat any disease, illness, or other medical condition. Every individual reader or poster should seek advice from their personal physician/healthcare practitioner before considering or using any interventions that are discussed on this website.


By continuing to access this website you agree to consult your personal physican before using any interventions posted on this website, and you agree to hold harmless FluTrackers.com Inc., the board of directors, the members, and all authors and posters for any effects from use of any medication, supplement, vitamin or other substance, device, intervention, etc. mentioned in posts on this website, or other internet venues referenced in posts on this website.


By using and/or accessing this site, either passively or actively, you are agreeing to all of the above conditions. Also, by using and/or accessing this site, either passively or actively, you agree to conduct all business and legal affairs related to this website in the jurisdiction of Flutrackers.com Inc. which is registered in  Central Florida, USA.


These Disclaimers are subject to change at anytime.


Email the Webmaster with questions or comments about this site at flutrackers@earthlink.net




All times are GMT -4. The time now is 03:56 PM.















Contact Us -
				FluTrackers.com -
				
			
Archive -
				
				
				
				Top









	H1N1 Influenza Swine Flu Avian Flu Infectious Diseases. Powered by vBulletin® Version 3.8.7Copyright ©2000 - 2014, Jelsoft Enterprises Ltd.
Template-Modifications by TMS


















