Ebola: Why do White Americans Survive, but Black Africans Die? (Modern Ghana, Ghana) Ebola: Why do White Americans Survive, but Black Africans Die? (Modern Ghana, Ghana) 






Allowing the Rest of the World to Speak Directly to AmericansPromoting Peace, Diplomacy and Cross-Cultural Understanding




 

     
         









Home


Archives


Contact Us


About Us


Non-U.S. Newspapers








































A West African nurse treating Ebola victims looks out from
behind her mask.
Is the virus the result of some nefarious U.S. experiment or
attempt to again 
blame Africa for a deadly disease?
Such rumors have  emerged.
    
 
 
Ebola: Why do
White Americans Survive, but Black Africans Die? (Modern Ghana, Ghana) 
    
 
"West
African countries seem to be sitting on a knife-edge. Ebola is scary because of
the rate at which it kills its victims. No known cure exists and one who is
infected has a narrow window of just two days before succumbing. … Standing out
are the cases of two Ebola victims who are citizens of the United States, Dr.
Kent Brantly, and Dr. Nancy Writebol.
Brantly was flown to the United States and is being taken
care of. Writebol is also being flown to the U.S. to
be attended to. Both have overcome the two-day ultimatum that West African
victims of Ebola haven't. Why?"
 
By Michael J.K. Bokor, Ph.D.
 
August 6, 2014
 
Uganda
– Modern Ghana – Original Article (English)
Folks, I ask a simple question: Why are the U.S. victims of
Ebola alive, while the African victims are not?
 
I have a few concerns about the most recent Ebola epidemic,
which has put West Africa under the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. The
first case in this barrage of Ebola attacks was reported to have occurred in
Guinea. Then the virus quickly spread to neighboring countries (Sierra Leone
and Liberia). Like a brushfire, Ebola reportedly spread to other regions
(Nigeria, where the victim died), and created a scare in Ghana (where a
U.S. citizen is said to have died at the Nyaho
Clinic in Accra).
 
Since then, the Ebola health disaster has become synonymous
with West Africa, ringing alarm bells in far-away countries like the United
Kingdom and United States. British health authorities are confident they can
counteract Ebola, and so has the United States, even after a new suspected case
checked into New York's Mount Sinai hospital. The epidemic has been quickly
declared manageable and unalarming.
 
What is it about Ebola that makes the White man resistant to
it, and the African vulnerable?
 
But the real issues concerning Ebola lie beneath all these
claims. The rapid rate of devastation of victims in Guinea, Sierra Leone, and
Liberia has alarmed the world, prompting the World Health Organization to
launch an appeal for 200 million dollars to combat it (or, at least, to do
something to prove that it is part of the solution).
 
As a precautionary measure, flights from Guinea, Sierra
Leone, and Liberia (regarded as the epicenter of the Ebola virus) are either
banned by countries wary of the Ebola threat or passengers from those countries
are being heavily screened or subjected to measures verging on quarantine.
Every country seems to be sitting on a knife-edge. Ebola is scary because of
the rate at which it kills its victims. No known cure exists and one who is
infected has a narrow window of just two days before succumbing.
 
Standing out are the cases of two Ebola victims who are
citizens of the United States, Dr. Kent Brantly, and Dr.
Nancy Writebol. Dr. Brantly
was flown to the United States and is being taken care of. Dr. Writebol is also being flown to the U.S. to be attended to.
Both have overcome the two-day ultimatum that West African victims of Ebola haven't.
Why?
 
Their case is particularly interesting because of what
happened. They were given the medication ZMapp, which
is praised as having significantly improved their conditions. They survived
many days and hours of being transported to the U.S. Not so for the poor
Guineans, Sierra Leoneans and Liberians who have been infected with the virus.
 
ZMapp was developed by the biotech
firm Mapp Biopharmaceutical Inc., based in San Diego
in the United States.
 
And a Ghanaian virologist (Dr. Kwamena
Sagoe, Head of Virology at the University of Ghana) has
expressed confidence that the experimental drug would be a potential cure
for the deadly Ebola virus. “I am confident that it could be a cure,” he said.
 
The question is: Why were the Guinean, Sierra Leonean, and
Liberian Ebola victims not given the drug, even if it is remains at the
precautionary or experimental stage?
Posted By Worldmeets.US
 
This circumstances or narrative on this Ebola epidemic is no
different from what we heard years ago about the HIV/AIDS pandemic, which portrayed
Africans as the source/cause, even when later narratives placed the blame
squarely at the doorstep of a failed scientific experiment by scientists in
United States. Or their counterparts in South Africa, using Black African males
as specimens for their deadly scientific experiments to decimate Black African
man and his manhood!!
 
Folks, I suppose that the talk of the experimental drug ZMapp will take us beyond where we are today, and later
developments will confirm fears that some hidden agenda is at play.
 
Isn’t it surprising that the disease has a name, given it by
those who know what it is, but no cure for the African victims? I am waiting to
see how the two American victims fare!! If they survive, hopes may be raised
that ZMapp could be the antidote to Ebola virus, but by
then, many lives will have been lost.
 
What this experimentation means is beyond my comprehension. Ebola
may turn out to be someone’s attempt to toy with human life on the altar of
advanced medical technology. And in consequence, one of the people will
certainly catch the eye of Nobel Prize administrators for an award. Pathetic!!
 
•         E-mail:
mjbokor@yahoo.com
•         Join me on
Facebook at: http://www.facebook.com/mjkbokor to continue the conversation.
 
SEE ALSO ON THIS:

Diario de Noticias, Portugal:
Africa Cannot Be Left to Washington and Beijing
Daily News, Tanzania:
Mama Sarah Explains Why Obama 'Snubbed' Kenya
The Independent, South Africa:
Obama's Six Deadly Sins 
Sud Quotidien, Senegal:
Obama in Senegal: A 'Triumph of Gestures' 
Business Day, South Africa:
America Remains a
Good Friend to Have
Times Live, South Africa:
'Obama
Disappointed Millions' says
Communist League Chief 

The Citizen, Tanzania:
Why Visit by 'Big Brother Obama' Should Worry Tanzania 

The Citizen, Tanzania:
In Snubbing Kenya, Obama Acts Like a Typical 'Luo' Man

Xewmedia, Senegal:
Africa Needs Obama to Join Fight Against Witch Hunting 

The Daily Independent, Nigeria:
Shame on Nigeria ... Obama is Right to Shun Us! 
Handelsblatt, Germany:
Kenyans Appreciate Barack Obama's 'Slap in the Face'

Modern Ghana, Ghana:
'Snub' from Obama Reflects 'Death of Nigerian Diplomacy'

The Ghanaian Chronicle, Ghana:
Ghana Should 'Cash In' on Obama's Visit

Handelsblatt, Germany:
Kenyans Appreciate Barack Obama's 'Slap in the Face'

Ghanaian Web, Ghana:
Mr. Obama: It's Time for America to Give Back to Africa

La Stampa, Italy:
'Historic Handshake' for Ghaddafi and 'Obama the African' 

My Joy, Ghana:
In Ghana, Obama 'Will Cry' for Africa

The Ghanaian Chronicle, Ghana:
Ghana Should 'Cash In' on Obama's Visit

The Ghanaian Times:
'Why Obama Snubbed Nigeria'
The Daily Sun, Nigeria:
The 'Stoning' of President Barack Hussein Obama
This Day, Nigeria:
Obama's Choice to Visit Ghana and Not Nigeria Should Be a Lesson to Us 
Boobab, Nigeria:
If Obama
Comes to Nigeria, 'I Will Stone Him'
 
 


 


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posted By Worldmeets.US August 6, 2014, 8:49am
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





Live Support








































The Daily ShowGet More: Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,Daily Show Video Archive


















Help Support Worldmeets.US

Worldmeets.US is a non-partisan, volunteer-based, not-for-profit organization that operates solely in the public interest. The opinions expressed in articles posted by Worldmeets.US are not necessarily those of Worldmeets.US, its sponsors, or its volunteers.
   






Worldmeets.US on Twitter




Worldmeets.US on Facebook



 Listen to Worldmeets.US Radio News with William Kern









 










Subscribe to the Worldmeets.US  Newsletter





Worldmeets.US is proud to feature the work of translators from London Metropolitan University




Worldmeets.us is proud to be associated with the Center For Emerging Media and  The Marc Steiner Show. Listen in daily at 5PM EST on WEAA, Maryland Public Radio  via podcast or streaming audio





For insight and analysis of the consequences of U.S. policy on Mexico, click here to read the Americas Mexico Blog of the Center for International Peace








	  Kurt Tucholsky's Berlin! Berlin! Dispatches 
	from the Weimar Republic and Jews in Berlin, 
	by Andreas Nachama, Julius H. Schoeps,and Hermann Simon: Two new books about
	 Berlin and Jewish history from Berlinica, available from Amazon and Barnes & Noble.


    Books, Movies, Music,and More from Berlin
  


Take Part in Our Mission
Needed: Translators and Trained Editors

Be a part of our project to more fully inform the American people.
Disclaimer


Feedjit Live Blog Stats







 

