Should I Worry about Ebola in Morocco?Should I Worry about Ebola in Morocco?







How Moving to Morocco is Like a Carnival “Fun” House

Amanda Mouttaki
Expat
January 1, 2014







The Day I Ate Snails in Marrakech

Amanda Mouttaki
Moroccan Food, Morocco
May 13, 2014







Eating in Morocco with Food Allergies

Amanda Mouttaki
Moroccan Food, Morocco
October 2, 2014







10 Phrases You Should Know Wherever You Go

Amanda Mouttaki
Travel
June 26, 2014










  MarocMama

Navigation


Home
Who is MarocMama

Our Top 10 Lists
Ramadan Revealed
Mobiles for Morocco


Resources

Expat Life
Language
The Moroccan Pantry
Reading Morocco
Travel Morocco
Volunteer in Morocco


Recipe Index

American Food
Moroccan Recipes
International Food


Travel & Culture

Caribbean
Finland
Mexico
Morocco
Portugal
Spain
United States
Tips on Travel


PR & Media

Media Mentions and Appearances
Work With MarocMama
Guest Posting
Disclosure Policy
Portfolio



   
 
 


buy iphone 6









 

 

Should I Worry about Ebola in Morocco?
In  Morocco,  Travel by Amanda MouttakiAugust 4, 20146 Comments

For months we’ve been watching the outbreak of Ebola in West Africa. I think the first mention was in February and while reports have ebbed and flowed,we have of course kept it on our radar. Just last week I noticed mention of it on the American news when one of the patients from West Africa was being transferred to the United States. I’ve gotten a few questions from people about whether or not they should be considered about this when visiting Morocco.

The simple answer is no. 
But there is a need to at least keep your radar up. There is a daily flight to Casablanca from Conkary, Guinea and Moroccan airport officials have stated they have (for the good or bad)  increased security and screenings on these flights entering the country. Officials in the airports of affected countries are also screening passengers leaving for signs of ebola. The other potential concern is that in Morocco there is a migrant population from west Africa that enter Morocco through land borders, and are often undocumented. There is a slight risk that someone carrying the virus could pass into Morocco and remain unknown. However keep in mind this is a perilous trip and someone who was sick would be in a very difficult position to make the overland journey through the Sahara.
As American citizens living in Morocco we are in regular contact with the American mission to Morocco. Whenever there is a potential security concern or should the need ever arise to evacuate we are emailed and potentially called with directions and warnings. We have received no warnings or even alerts regarding ebola. While this doesn’t mean there’s no concern, it does mean that the American government does not view it as a threat to citizens residing in Morocco. Unless there are any cases that appear in Morocco, I don’t expect this to change.
It’s also good to keep in mind just how far away this virus is from Morocco. Conkary to Casablanca is nearly 1800 miles and the Sahara desert sits in the middle. Personally, I am not worried for my family but we do keep up to date on what is happening and if the virus is progressing.
My advice? Don’t let this stop you from visiting Morocco!
Related PostsWant to come to Marrakech and Hang Out with Us?63A few weeks ago I got an email titled "Hello from Tea Collection." My heart skipped a beat, could it be THE Tea Collection? Whose clothes inspired by global destinations made me smile while browsing through. I mean as an expat I spend my fair share of time dreaming of all the online shopping (and…Tags: travel, marrakech, morocco{Guest Post} Spending a Day in Marrakech61I'll be welcoming a few guest bloggers this month to share their Morocco ideas and experiences. This post is from Esther of Mooistestedentrips.  A visit to Marrakech is a boost for all your senses. You’ll spend your time in Marrakech seeing, hearing, tasting and feeling the best Morocco has to offer. It was such a…Tags: marrakech, morocco, travelVisiting the Ourika Valley, Morocco with Kids61Sometimes the crush and bustle of Marrakech gets too overwhelming and we need to get out of the city. Most people that come to visit don't know there are small towns and beautiful scenery only a short car ride away. Essaouaira is our favorite escape for the weekend but for a day trip, or even…Tags: marrakech, morocco, travelMoroccan Modern Style at Riad Sapphire60From the outside, almost every riad looks the same. The doors might be different. The walls may be shorter or taller and of course the neighborhoods vary. But from the outside there's no way of knowing what you'll find inside. It could be a lush green garden surrounded be heavy tapestries and ornate rugs. Or…Tags: travel, marrakechTravel Tuesday: Marrakech Must-do59If you have been reading for awhile you know that my in-laws make their home in Marrakech.  It's my husbands' birth city and where I have spent the majority of my time in Morocco.  And, I love it dearly.  Today I will tell you why.                 Horse drawn carriages?  Yes…Tags: marrakech, morocco, travel  
Amanda MouttakiShould I Worry about Ebola in Morocco?08.04.2014



Comments



  


August 26, 2014 Reply  
Ronnie 

Really interesting and helpful for anyone traveling to Morocco






  


August 25, 2014 Reply  
Margherita @The Crowded Planet 

I’ve been watching the Ebola pandemic as I was planning to travel around West Africa in the near future. The fact that it could affect Morocco didn’t even cross my mind (the Sahara’s in the middle, as you said) but you’re right, it’s good to be on guard. Not paranoid, just wary.






  


August 25, 2014 Reply  
Fiona @ London-Unattached 

Very sensible views here.  And I kind of agree with Rebecca!






  


August 19, 2014 Reply  
Julia 

The Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Morris Dukuly, has disclosed that a Liberian has died of the  deadly Ebola virus in Morocco.
Internal Affairs Minister Morris Dukuly
YES, THERE ARE EFFECTIVELY SOME EBOLA CASES IN MOROCCO
The Ebola virus, which has no cure,  has killed at least 129 people here, and claimed more than 670 lives across the region. A top Liberian doctor working at Liberia’s largest hospital died recently, and two American aid workers have fallen ill, underscoring the dangers facing those charged with bringing the outbreak under control. Also recently, an official of the Ministry of Finance identified as Patrick Sawyer died of the disease at a Lagos hospital. As a means of containing further spread of the disease, President Johnson-Sirleaf set up a taskforce to help in the fight of the disease and ordered the closure of the country’s three land borders. The Liberian leader also ordered that public gatherings be restricted and communities heavily affected by the Ebola outbreak be quarantined.
Making the disclosure at a news conference held at the Ministry on Wednesday, July 30, 2014, Minister Dukuly, who is also the Vice Chairman on the National Ebola Taskforce, further disclosed that the deceased left the country two days before his death. Although Minister Dukuly did not  disclose the name of the Liberian, who he said  died of Ebola in Morocco, he  averred that  this means that there are many more people who are carrying the disease unknowingly. Against this backdrop, the Internal Affairs Ministry boss called on traditional chiefs to help inform their local people on the threat of the deadly disease. “You, traditional chiefs, are the owners of the land, and the land is under threat that I have not seen in my life before,” said Minister Dukuly. “Tell your people to stop running behind health workers. This may cause them to leave. For instance, Samaritan Purse, one of the partners, wanted to leave Lofa County due to threats they received from local people,” he warned.
While urging the chiefs to adequately inform their  people, he reminded them that Ebola is real and does not have to claim more lives before people get to believe it. “We have a common challenge, which seems to be growing. This challenge is Ebola, and we need to fight it. Since the disease was discovered in March of this year,” he noted. He then  lauded the Country Director of the World Health Organization (WHO) Dr. Nestor Ndayimirije for his care shown since the outbreak of the disease in March. According to him, WHO through Dr. Ndayimirije has provided technical and other supports towards the fight of the disease in the country. Speaking briefly, WHO Country boss, Dr. Ndayimirije said the disease can be prevented if people observe the necessary precautionary measures.
He disclosed that Ebola has killed 166 people since its outbreak. Of this number, he said,  over 20 health workers have died, while over 45 more are being affected by the disease. Dr.  Ndayimirije  also disclosed that a total of 329 cases have been reported since the outbreak of the disease. “You are the local leaders, tell your people to please support health workers and not to chase them. Samaritan Purse on yesterday said it will not continue because its workers were attacked and chased in Lofa with one of their staff wounded in the process in Foya. Please tell them to stop playing with dead bodies,” he  warned. For his part, the Chairman of the National Traditional Council of Liberia (NTCL), Chief Zanzar Karwor, accepted the request from government and its partners to help in the campaign. However, he urged that the government shows videos of patients and people who have died from the virus.
s Dukuly






 Author 


August 23, 2014 Reply  
Amanda Mouttaki 

I’m publishing this comment but everything I’ve read has said that there is no ebola in Morocco. There have been some people who have had “symptoms” – but were not in fact ebola.  Anyone visiting should of course keep up with the latest news and this could change at any point. I will update this post if I find out anything differently. We are keeping track very closely.








  


August 7, 2014 Reply  
Rebecca White Body 

That’s reassuring! I suppose “Take reasonable precautions but don’t disrupt your plans based on the remote possibility of contracting an illness” doesn’t make for such good headlines, though…






Leave a Comment Cancel reply

Name * 
Email * 
Website
Comment 




 Notify me of followup comments via e-mail. You can also subscribe without commenting. 




Looking for Something?

Search


Connect With Me 












Get the Updates Click HERE and add your email to receive new posts, news, and other updates directly to your mailbox. 
 
 
Post Sponsors and Partners 
 
 


 Come and Eat in the Red City with MarocMama and MarocBaba!

Memberships and Affiliations 
 



 
 


 

 

Daily Life on Instagram 




2 hours ago

by marocmama
The summer haze has cleared and the Atlas Mountains are now in view. It's the happ happiest season of all.... #expatlife #marrakech #morocco




7 hours ago

by marocmama
The spoils of our last lunch in Italy. Missing it already! #travel #ilikemarche #eatlocal #slowfood #italy #agrotourismo




1 day ago

by marocmama
I give you an Italian witch. Notice the fried eggs going into the beaker. These witches are something else! #halloween #witch #italy




1 day ago

by marocmama
When I walked into this driveway I immediately had flashes of the scene in Gladiator when the wife is looking out at the horse riders coming towards them... #Italy #ilikemarche #rural #agrotourismo #bellisimo




2 days ago

by marocmama
Waking up in Marrakech will be magical for the 200 people on my plane last night. But falling asleep to the sunsets in #Italy was magic to me. #sunsetsforbreakfast #sunset #ilikemarche




2 days ago

by marocmama
Bike riding along the water and in the coastal cities of the Marche region is popular. I forgot how nice it can be. Then I remembered I live in Marrakech and prefer to stay alive.  What do you think.  Does it suit me?  #nobikelanes #ilikemarche #italy #bike #ride #vintage




2 days ago

by marocmama
This picture captures my feelings of coastal Italy. Sun, beautiful fruit, eating and relaxing. When can I go back? #ilikemarche #catsofig #italy #lemons




3 days ago

by marocmama
This was a really amazing Art Deco style church. I've never seen one like it! #art #artdeco #church #history #italy




 Visit Amanda Mouttaki's profile on Pinterest.


 









 



 



      Discount Codes  Top BrandsOld Navy CouponsVitamin Shoppe Coupon CodesSephora Discount CodesCrate And Barrel Coupon CodesShoe Carnival Promo Coupons  

 
 
 



Powered By The X Theme 














