Nigeria Has Reduced Number Of Ebola Cases To One - Minister - Channels TelevisionNigeria Has Reduced Number Of Ebola Cases To One - Minister - Channels Television












Toggle navigation





8-TIME TELEVISION STATION OF THE YEAR




Home

Sections

Africa
Business
Entertainment
Local
Politics
Sports
World News


Programs
Live TV



Facebook
Twitter
Google Plus
RSS


8-TIME TELEVISION STATION OF THE YEAR


SEARCH













Search

































                Nigeria Has Reduced Number Of Ebola Cases To One  – Minister                
 





by Channels Television  .  Aug 26, 2014














Nigeria has successfully reduced the number of Ebola cases to one, the Minister of Health, Professor Onyebuchi Chukwu, said on Tuesday.



At a press conference in Abuja, Professor Chukwu said that only one Ebola patient remained in isolation in Nigeria, down from the 13 cases confirmed since the outbreak of the virus in July.
The deadly virus was first brought to Nigeria by a Liberian-American man, Patrick Sawyer who died on July 25.
After Mr Sawyer’s death, health workers who treated him tested positive.
Professor Chukwu said: “So far Nigeria has had 13 cases including the index case”.
“Five of those infected, including Mr Sawyer died, while seven have successfully recovered and were discharged.
“Two of the nurses who managed Mr Sawyer were discharged on Monday at the isolation centre in Lagos,” Professor Chukwu said.
He said Nigeria had been able to contain the Ebola Virus Disease, with the reduced number of cases.
According to him, All the 129 people, who were under surveillance, have completed the 21-day observation incubation period and only one person was found to be symptomatic and is still being observed.
He said that the patient a female,  is a secondary contact of the index case.
Professor Chukwu, however, debunked reports that a sister of the late medical doctor, Ameyo Adadevoh was infected with the virus.
Meanwhile, out of the 257 under surveillance, 139 have completed their incubation period,without any trace of the disease in them.
Another 138 persons are still under surveillance.
The government has appealed to citizens not to be relaxed despite the successes recorded so far.
 
























More Top Stories



Buhari Declares Intention To Contest 2015 Presidential Election
Seven Ministers To Disengage From Jonathan’s Cabinet
2015 Election: Buhari, Kwankwaso On Consultation Visits To Gov Ahmed
Buhari In Rivers, Vows To Combat Impunity, Corruption If Elected President
Nigerian, Cameroonian Militaries Hold Bilateral Parley On Operation Against Terror





Tweets by @ChannelsTV_NG







   














About us
Meet The Team
Contact
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Programmes
Videos
Live TV
Downloads
© 2014 Channels Television Incorporated









