Ebola-Why African Leaders are not fighting for experimental drug Zmapp! | Queen of the Naija BlogEbola-Why African Leaders are not fighting for experimental drug Zmapp! | Queen of the Naija Blog





























































Queen of the Naija Blog



 Nigeria Entertainment,News,Sports,Events,Gossips,Educational,Thought Provoking&Much More!! I can't keep a Secret! :) 




















link ad































CATEGORIES



Nigeria


Entertainment


news


africa


People


music


celebrity


Football


Sports


sex


Nollywood


Religion


Politics


Story


queens archives


Technology


















































































Monday, 11 August 2014








Ebola-Why African Leaders are not fighting for experimental drug Zmapp!







Nigerian Nurse Obi Justina Ejelonu, is her country doing enough to save her life?

Why can't African Governments get the experimental Ebola Virus drug Zmapp to save their people?The 75 year old Spanish Priest who contracted Ebola in West Africa and was flown back to Spain is now
 being treated with the experimental drug Zmapp.Now the same Zmapp drug was used for the "two American missionary Doctors" who were also infected in West Africa.
President Obama turned down requests of sending the experimental drugs to Africa.Saying Africa should concentrate for now on how to contain the disease and educate the masses etc.But the question i ask myself is,why is the drug good enough for the Americans and now the Spanish Priest but not for the Africans? I can't really blame President Obama,they are not Americans afterall,he is taking care of his own citizens,why can't our leader and the other African leaders get this Zmapp drug for their own people?It says the Spanish Priest had his drug flown in from Geneva,so if you pay for it,you will get it.If i am wrong and the Americans are the only one's who can issue the drug,then we are going into a different category,cos why would they give the Spanish and not the Africans?
Bet your last dollar that if any of the family of these African leaders contract the disease,that drug will appear in their country before you can spell Vaccination!


Spanish priest Miguel Pajares,his country have moved mountains to save his life.


 The African leaders should be doing a lot more for the Africans infected,they should not have the approach of,its only a few people,if they die its okay as long as we can contain the disease.They should be fighting to contain the disease as well as saving the lives of those infected.Lives of citizens mean nothing to African leaders and it is very sad.People have died so much in Africa that life means nothing anymore.They are just figures.If those people infected were Americans ,Brits,Spanish,Italians just to name a few,they will be fighting to the last drop to save those citizens.You can already see this they way the Spanish and Americans are looking after their own,but not in Africa.

I haven't seen or got the impression that our leaders are fighting for that drug..so far it's saving lives from what we've seen of the Americans and now the Spanish priest.Shouldn't the African countries with infected citizens be fighting for each and everyone of those people like they were their own blood relatives?
These leaders simply don't care enough! What's a few lives lost to them?When you see some of the hospitals that have been featured in the press so far since this Ebola outbreak,you will see how little these leaders care about African lives.Remember they don't have to use these hospitals,when they need Medical help,we see them all fly out..even the Presidents!

It's very disappointing,we keep repeating the same sentiments with nothing coming out of it.We need a new approach,sadly i don't think these current generation of leaders can ever view lives of the citizens of their country precious.To them it is always damage limitation,the mentality is only a few died,so its ok.Every single life lost in a nation should be a tragedy and heartache for the whole nation and it's leader.




Nancy Writebol&Kent Brantly the two American aid workers treated with Zmapp.

Since the Zmapp drug has been used on the missionary American Doctors,they have got better and stronger.The Spanish Priest as well hasn't had no fever,is stronger and not hemorrhaging.Have you heard the same  about the African patients?All we hear is them dropping dead one by one!
I read and posted the story of the young Nigerian Nurse,Obi Justina Ejelonu, who treated Patrick Sawyer the American citizen who flew in from Liberia.She is a young bright girl with her life ahead of her.I hope she survives this,but without the Zmapp drug,her chances don't look too good.Is it too much for the Nigerian Government and Nigerian Health services to get this drug for her and the others infected?




Posted by



Queen of the Naija




at

1:55 am
















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest





Labels:
africa,
ebola virus disease,
health matters,
Nigeria,
West Africa






Reactions: 










2 comments:




Philip Meredith11 August 2014 06:12I'm sorry for Africa not getting this drug yet. From what I have read there isn't much of the drug available which takes 2 months to make. As far as sending it to Africa, I think it will happen soon. It's an untested drug on humans until recently. It could have bad side effects in which the US would be held responsible.ReplyDeleteAnonymous11 August 2014 06:46@Philip,2 questions pls and maybe you can answer.It says the drug was sent to Spain from Geneva,is this through the aid of the US or did they get it independently for the Spanish Priest?And if it was through the aid of the US,Why give it to the Spanish Priest but not to the Africans?ReplyDeleteAdd commentLoad more...



































Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)




share

















































follow us
















About Me





Queen of the Naija


We are here to make you smile,think and reminisce...also entertain you,provoke you intellectually,educate and learn from you while challenging and breaking boundaries

View my complete profile


















Follow ME on TWITTER

Follow @twitter




























ADVERTS

To place an Advert here -Email us @ Queenofthenaija@yahoo.co.ukWe have a Diverse platform for you-Home and Abroad.











FOLLOW US ON


FOLLOW US































Search This Blog


Loading...













link
















Popular Posts









British Magaluf Girl Tricked into "Sexing" 24 men for A holiday!(VIDEO)





Australian star Rolf Harris gets 5years 9months jail sentence





Give Nigeria 18 More states&Change National Anthem-National conference Delegates





VIDEO of Alan Heading British Aid worker BEHEADING by ISIS





Explicit Nude Pics of Jennifer Lawrence&Victoria Justice leaked by Hacker! 





Mary E Winstead & Celebrities hacked Leaked Nude Photos





British Home Office removes Visa Requirements for Nigerian passport Holders





Oba Adeyemi Alaafin of Oyo seen Shopping with 4 wives in London!










Peter Okoye For Ladies only Concert coming soon!















Like Us













Visitors

Live Traffic Stats


















































 Amazon.co.uk Widgets

























































Recomended
























Chief Olofofo. Awesome Inc. template. Powered by Blogger.

































