FAQ: The Deadly Ebola VirusFAQ: The Deadly Ebola Virus


















 

Skip to content






Enter Search Keywords. Use the arrow keys to navigate suggestions.






Symptoms|
Doctors|
Health Care Reform





Health A-Z



Common Conditions
View All

ADD/ADHD
Allergies
Arthritis
Cancer
Cold, Flu & Cough
Depression
Diabetes


Eye Health
Heart Disease
Heartburn/GERD
Pain Management
Sexual Conditions
Skin Problems
Sleep Disorders



Featured Topics

Identifying Bugs and Their Bites  
Bothered by Yeast Infections?
The Worst Shoes for Your Feet  





WebMD Symptom Checker
Health concern on your mind?
See what your medical symptoms could mean, and learn about possible conditions.
Get Started




Resources

Second Opinion: Read expert perspectives on popular health topics.
Communities: Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life.
Insurance Guide: Get ready for changes to your health care coverage.
Physician Directory: Find a doctor in your area.



WebMD Pain Coach

Track your pain levels, triggers, and treatments. Set goals and get tips with our app for iPhone.




Drugs & Supplements



Find Information About:
Drugs & Supplements
Get information and reviews on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, vitamins, and supplements. Search by name or medical condition.

Find or Review a Drug
Find or Review a Vitamin or Supplement
Check for Drug Interactions 


Drug Basics & Safety

Commonly Abused Drugs  
What's Your Medication IQ?
Food, Medical Product & Cosmetic Safety





WebMD Pill Identifier
Having trouble identifying your pills?
Enter the shape, color, or imprint of your prescription or OTC drug. Our pill identification tool will display pictures that you can compare to your pill.
Get Started


WebMD My Medicine
Save your medicine, check interactions, sign up for FDA alerts, create family profiles and more.
Get Started




Drug News

Get the Latest Drug Approvals & Alerts
Find FDA Consumer Updates
Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.

FDA Approves Diet Pill Belviq
FDA Delays Decision on Blood Thinner Eliquis



WebMD Mobile Drug Information App

Drug, supplement, and vitamin information on the go.




Living Healthy



Featured Content


Want luxurious locks?
WebMD cuts through the hype to reveal the best kept secrets for healthy hair.




Must-See Diet, Fitness & Beauty Info




Living Healthy Centers
View All


Diet, Food & Fitness

Weight Loss & Diet Plans
Food & Recipes
Fitness & Exercise




Beauty, Balance & Love

Healthy Beauty
Health & Balance
Sex & Relationships
Oral Care




Living Well

Women's Health
Men's Health
Aging Well
Teens






Featured Topics

BMI Calculator: Get Personalized Results
Portion Size Plate: Easy Serving Size Guide
Your Birth Control Options
19 Secrets Men Wish Women Knew  
Quiz: Weird, Crazy Dreams

Food & Fitness Planner: Personalize Your Weight Loss Plan



WebMD Allergy App for iPhone

Fight allergies with daily forecasts, local alerts, and personalized tips.




Family & Pregnancy



Featured Content


Traveling abroad?
Protect yourself and your family by learning which health precautions and vaccines are advised for your destination.




Our Best Pregnancy & Parenting Tips




Family and Pregnancy Centers


Pregnancy

Trying to Conceive
First Trimester
Second Trimester
Third Trimester




Parenting

Newborn & Baby
Children's Health
Children's Vaccines
Raising Fit Kids




Pets

Healthy Cats
Healthy Dogs






Featured Topics

Know the Signs of Early Pregnancy?
Test Your Smarts: What's Safe to Eat When You're Pregnant?
Peek Inside the Womb to See How Baby Grows  
Healthy School Lunches  
Quiz: Know How to Avoid The Next Toddler Meltdown?

WebMD Vaccine Tracker: Manage Vaccinations for Your Entire Family



WebMD Pregnancy App for iPhone

The big day is coming! Get organized and track baby's weekly development.




News & Experts



News
View All


Today's Top Health Headlines



Get the Latest Drug Approvals & Alerts


Find FDA Consumer Updates
On The Road Again: FDA Mobile Laboratories  
Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.



WebMD Health Experts and Community


Talk to health experts and other people like you in WebMD's Communities. It's a safe forum where you can create or participate in support groups and discussions about health topics that interest you.


WebMD Second Opinion 
Read expert  perspectives on popular health topics.



WebMD Communities
Connect with people like you, and get expert guidance on living a healthy life.





WebMD Answers
Got a health question? Get answers provided by leading organizations, doctors, and experts.
Get Answers


WebMD Newsletters

Sign up to receive WebMD's award-winning content delivered to your inbox.








My WebMD Sign In, Sign Up


My WebMD Sign In

Please enter email address


Enter your password




Keep me signed in on this computer

Show more Information
If you select "Keep me signed in on this computer", you can stay signed in to WebMD.com on this computer for up to 2 weeks or until you sign out. This means that a cookie will stay on your computer even when you exit or close your browser which may reduce your levels of privacy and security. You should never select this option if you're using a publicly accessible computer, or if you're sharing a computer with others. Even if you select this option there are some features of our site that still require you to log in for privacy reasons.




Forget your password?
Having trouble signing in?




Why should Isign up for WebMD?
With a WebMD Account you can:

Track your way to weight loss success
Manage your family's vaccinations
Join the conversation

See more benefits
Sign Up




Subscribe

My WebMD

Show Menu


My Tools
My WebMD Pages
My Account
Sign Out





FacebookTwitterPinterest










WebMD Home



Health News 

Email a Friend


Print Article







Information and Resources








Font SizeAAAFAQ: The Deadly Ebola Virus
By
Rita  RubinWebMD Health News
Reviewed by
Michael W. Smith, MDEditor's note: This story was updated on Oct. 14, 2014, with the identity of the Dallas nurse who has Ebola, updated comments, and Ebola survivor Dr. Kent Brantly donating blood.April 4, 2014 -- Perhaps no virus strikes as much fear in people as Ebola, the cause of a deadly outbreak in West Africa.The World Health Organization (WHO) reports nearly 8,400 confirmed or suspected cases of Ebola in the countries of Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Sierra Leone as of Oct. 8. More than 4,000 people have died in the largest Ebola outbreak ever recorded. Ebola Coverage on WebMD Video: How Ebola KillsEbola: How Infectious is It?Video: CDC on How to Contain EbolaExperimental Ebola Serum A nurse at a Dallas hospital became the first person to catch Ebola in the U.S. on Oct. 12. Media reports say she is 26-year-old Nina Pham. Pham works at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital. Officials say she helped treat Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian man who died there on Oct. 8. Duncan arrived in the U.S. on Sept. 20 to visit relatives and 10 days later became the first person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the U.S. “We have to rethink the way we address Ebola infection control, because even a single infection is unacceptable,” said CDC Director Tom Frieden, MD, in a news conference on Monday.The nurse reported a low-grade fever the night of Oct. 10 and was isolated and referred for testing, according to the Texas Department of State Health Services. She is stable, the CDC said Monday, and was speaking with investigators as they piece together how she became infected. One person was being watched after having contact with her following the onset of her symptoms.Health officials said Duncan went to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital the evening of Sept. 25 complaining of fever and abdominal pain. He was given antibiotics and allowed to go home, despite telling a nurse who was using the hospital’s Ebola checklist that he’d recently arrived from West Africa. He returned to the hospital by ambulance on Sept. 28 and was placed in isolation. Officials announced on Sept. 30 he had Ebola. Health officials are watching those who had contact with Duncan in the time between the onset of his symptoms and his return to the hospital. Five Americans infected with the virus in Africa have been brought back to the U.S. for treatment in isolation units at Nebraska and Georgia hospitals. They include aid workers Rick Sacra, MD; Kent Brantly, MD; and Nancy Writebol. All three were released from hospitals after recovering.The fourth person, identified only as a WHO doctor, was flown back to the U.S. on Sept. 9 for treatment at Atlanta’s Emory University Hospital, where Brantly and Writebol were also treated. That person’s condition was not known.1|2|3|4Next Page >Continue reading below...












Further Reading:Slideshow: Ebola Virus Pictures: A Visual GuideQuiz: Ebola Facts: Test Your KnowledgeEbola Virus: Symptoms, Treatment, and PreventionCDC Director Tom Frieden, MD, on EbolaEbola Vaccine TrialsFDA Update on EbolaHow Ebola KillsSee All Ebola Virus Topics















Top 12 News Topics


1.

Enterovirus



2.

Ebola



3.

Young Adult Strokes



4.

Detecting Cancer



5.

Ketamine



6.

Artificial Sweeteners



7.

Contrave



8.

Breakfast



9.

Statins



10.

Alcohol



11.

Weight Loss Drugs



12.

Alzheimer's 













Top 12 Topics


1.

Enterovirus



2.

Baby Eczema



3.

Dreams Quiz



4.

Top Health Apps



5.

Allergy Products



6.

Fertility & Ovulation



7.

Walking Pneumonia



8.

Brain Foods 



9.

Hepatitis C



10.

Ketamine 



11.

Chia Seeds



12.

Molly








































WebMD Video: Now Playing








Dirty Truth About Hand Washing









Dirty Truth About Hand Washing






Which sex is the worst about washing up? Why is it so important? We’ve got the dirty truth on how and when to wash your hands.















Truth About Bad Breath









Truth About Bad Breath






Suffer from chronic halitosis? Get the truth on the causes and cures for your stinky breath.















Dangers of Gum Disease









Dangers of Gum Disease






If you're not brushing and flossing regularly, you are at risk for gum disease and potential health problems.















Truth About Shampoo and Conditioner









Truth About Shampoo and Conditioner






Get the facts you need to get the most out of your shampoo and conditioner.















Laugh Therapy: Does it Work?









Laugh Therapy: Does it Work?






Therapist Steven Sultanoff explains the utility of humor in counseling, and Jeffrey Briar leads a session of Laughter Yoga on Laguna Beach.












































Health Solutions From Our Sponsors



Choose the Right Rinse


Trying to Get Pregnant?


Dupuytren’s Disease?




IBS-C Symptoms?


Knee Pain Relief


Cochlear Implants




Healthy Knee Options


Managing Diabetes


Which Oral Rinse to Use




OA Doctor Answers


Controlling Heart Disease


Supplement FAQs




Combat Unseen Acne


Exercise & OA Knee Pain


Managing IBS-C Symptoms


 



More From WebMD:
RA Basics|Ulcerative Colitis Diet|Essential Nutrition for Women|Blood Sugar Swings|Low Testosterone|BMI Calculator|ADHD Symptoms|RA Exercises 



Find us on:














URAC: Accredited Health Web Site










AdChoices




About WebMD Advertise With Us Terms of Use Privacy Policy Sponsor Policy Site Map Careers Contact Us


Medscape Reference eMedicineHealth RxList Medscape MedicineNet BootsWebMD
WebMD Corporate


WebMD Health Services First Aid WebMD Magazine WebMD Health Record WebMD Mobile Newsletters


Dictionary Physician Directory



				©2005-2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
			

				WebMD does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. See additional information.



















