Olodo Nation   –  Strike Update: NMA Slams FG, Pledges To Fight #EbolaOlodo Nation   –  Strike Update: NMA Slams FG, Pledges To Fight #EbolaGoogle 




Home
UnilagOlodo
WRITE FOR US
ABOUT US
CONTACT US
 
















 





Editorials
Entertainment
Events
Interviews
Music
Series

Chronicles of Lola
Dominoes
Lamentations Of An Ugly Girl


Social Issues
 







← Previous Post
Next Post →


Strike Update: NMA Slams FG, Pledges To Fight #Ebola
Iliyas Ahmed
August 18, 2014
0




Is It Over? M.I Drops Mic… Sends Apology To Fans 


Liberia Admits #Ebola Patients Are Missing


 
 

The Nigeria Medical Association, Oyo State chapter, has condemned the Federal Government directive, which suspended all resident doctors programme and sacked about 16,000 doctors in the country as the strike embarked upon by doctors reached one and a half months.
Last week Wednesday, the FG released a statement through the Deputy Director of Press, Federal Ministry of Health, Alhaji Isiaka Yusuf, saying that the sacking option was necessary after all avenue to end the strike failed.
Chairman of NMA in Oyo State, Dr. Muideen Olatunji, said the FG’s action was condemnable as it reflected traits of bad governance.
After the doctors held a meeting in Ibadan on Monday, Olatunji said the house resolved that no doctor should collect the alleged sack letter or sign any register from the government, adding that none of its members will apply or take up any position declared vacant by the FG. He however said that the doctors would continue to provide emergency services especially with the outbreak of Ebola disease in the country.
He said, “We are confronting a deadly epidemic with high contagious capacity and the only institution so designed to confront it is being decimated by the Federal Government. We see this policy as abnormal which does not give a good account of good leadership.
“NMA in Oyo State condemns in totality the alleged Presidential directive through the Ministry of Health, which suspends residency training programme in Nigeria. We demand the withdrawal of the suspension circular and unconditional reinstatement of the so-called sacked resident doctors.
A communiqué made available at the end of the meeting urged government to show commitment on its part to solve the current impasse with the NMA, rather than resulting to punitive measure.
“NMA shall resist by all means any attempt by the FG to break its rank as an association. Rather than abolishing residency training programme, government should show commitment to improving the already poorly funded programme. It should improve on the nation’s health facility with the view to discouraging medical tourism abroad,” the communiqué said in part.
“NMA believes that the current government position will further worsen industrial harmony. In the light of the above, NMA hereby directs that no doctor should adopt or collect any sack letter or any register opened by the government or its agents in any of the hospitals.
“For the avoidance of doubt, no medical doctor, no matter how hungry should pick up any appointment with the government hospital as directed by the said circular. Any doctor who ignores this directive does so at his or her own peril. What we are fighting for is for the good of the nation and not for the doctors’ personal benefit,” the communiqué added.
The doctors also resolved that all its members remain committed towards containing the Ebola outbreak.
“The Oyo State chapter has already constituted a response team and we are in league with the state government on how to manage the situation if perhaps it comes into the state. We urge anyone who is under surveillance to remain where they are instead of travelling to other places.”
 
   Click Here To Subscribe To Our BBM Channel! Add Pin: C001AE1AD Or Search “Official Olodo Nation” To Get Live Updates.  


Is It Over? M.I Drops Mic… Sends Apology To Fans 


Liberia Admits #Ebola Patients Are Missing




Share this:


Share





Share on Tumblr





























Tweet













TAGS » Ebola, FG, fight, NMA, Slams, Strike, Update
POSTED IN » Social Issues


 About the author: Iliyas Ahmed View all posts by Iliyas Ahmed
A writer/blogger, believe everything I tell you.


Twitter
												
												-
												
												Facebook

















Search Olodo Nation


 


Subscribe
to RSS Feed



27166
Followers



8664
Fans


Rollykeysz Editsz: Graphics Guru(Hilarious Web Series) Aproko 101Series On Olodo NationSubscribe to Blog via Email

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.









Recent Commentsowonikoko on Temitope Emmanuel Abolaji ~ Dawo Ibi Duroayobammy on Temitope Emmanuel Abolaji ~ Dawo Ibi Duroj-fizzle on Moet Rose Nights Hosts Basketmouth As He Celebrates His 36th Birthday With Bovi, Terry G, Buchi & Others In Lagosademuwagun olabode on Honda Officially Unveils 2015 Civic, + Special Edition Sedanjej ent on Virginia-based Company ~ ‘ComSonics’ Develops New Traffic Radar Gun To Detect When Drivers Are Texting 
Recent Posts


Gangsters Behead Youth, Shoot Another Dead In Lagos, As Cult Clash Continues
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Chaste Inegbedion, New Global Ambassador for ‘A World at School’ to Adopt Technology In Serving Community
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Kaymu’s MD ‘Evangeline Wiles’ Unveiled As LCCI Goodwill Ambassador
October 15, 2014, No Comments



2Face Unveiled As An Ambassador For Lagos Chamber Of Commerce And Industry
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Out Of School & Don’t Have a Job? The Future Project & Jobberman.com Present #Intern4Jobs … APPLY NOW
October 15, 2014, No Comments



(EVENT) @ClubQuilox Boss Shina Peller To Be Celebrated With @REMYMARTINng’s Pacesetter Party
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Tour Of Da Season Oritse Femi European Tour (The Musik Taliban)
October 15, 2014, No Comments



.@miamormagng Presents #MiaMorCampusStorm Mapoly Invasion, A Youth Empowerment Project For Students
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Rocksteady (@iam_Rocksteady) ~ Okporoko Biz (Prod by Jay Sleek)
October 15, 2014, No Comments



Join The @Ureportnigeria Inititiative! Text ”Join” to 24453 & Read More Here #UreportNigeria
October 15, 2014, No Comments










About Us "Unilag olodo?Why would anyone even use OLODO as a domain name?why would anyone subscribe to a website called unilag olodo?Doesn't he/she know what olodo is?I mean olodo means dummy! for crying out loud!"... Yeap! thats what most of you must have thought. First what is the general term used to describe the word OLODO?What/Who Is An Olodo?
Olodo /oh-low-doh/
1.) A person with a very low IQ thus the inability to grasp simple facts that others understand effortlessly.
 Read More here at : http://olodonation.com/about


Like us on Facebook 


Copyright © 2011 - OlodoNation. All rights reserved.
Powered by OlodoNationBack to Top














This site is protected by Comment SPAM Wiper.  



 




 
 


