American Ebola patient coming home - CNN.comAmerican Ebola patient coming home - CNN.com

   
















EDITION:  INTERNATIONAL
U.S.
MÉXICO
ARABIC




TV:  
CNNi
CNN en Español


Set edition preference



Sign up
Log in

















Home
Video
World
U.S.
Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
Business
Entertainment
World Sport
Tech
Travel
iReport

















SHARE THIS














Print
Email
More sharing


Reddit


StumbleUpon


Delicious











American Ebola patient coming home 



By Jen Christensen, CNN
September 5, 2014 -- Updated 0029 GMT (0829 HKT)
















STORY HIGHLIGHTS


Dr. Rick Sacra will be flown to Nebraska for treatment
Sacra was stationed in Liberia when he caught the Ebola virus
Aid organization says he will have better access to care in U.S.






(CNN) -- Another American doctor infected with the deadly Ebola virus is coming home for treatment in the United States.
Dr. Rick Sacra was stationed in Liberia when he was exposed to the virus. He will be flown to Nebraska, according to the international Christian mission organization Serving In Mission.
He's expected to arrive at Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha on Friday.
His spouse, Debbie Sacra, said he is "clearly sick" but is in "good spirits" and was able to walk onto the plane. "We are really encouraged by that news and are looking forward to reuniting with him," she said.
Sacra was admitted to an Ebola case management center over the weekend near the hospital in Monrovia where he has served for 15 years.
"Rick was receiving excellent care from our SIM/ELWA staff in Liberia at our Ebola 2 Care Center," said Bruce Johnson, president of SIM USA. "They all love and admire him deeply. However, The Nebraska Medical Center provides advanced monitoring equipment and wider availability of treatment options."
What to know about the killer disease
Sacra, who is from Holden, Massachusetts, was not treating Ebola patients directly. Instead he was delivering babies at a general hospital in Monrovia, Johnson said.
"I am surrounded by friends and family and the body of Christ, who are a great encouragement and who are praying fervently for Rick's recovery along with me," Debbie Sacra said in a statement. "We are trusting in God to be with Rick and us through this difficult circumstance.
"Rick would want me to urge you to remember that there are many people in Liberia who are suffering in this epidemic and others who are not receiving standard health care because clinics and hospitals have been forced to close. West Africa is on the verge of a humanitarian crisis, and the world needs to respond compassionately and generously."
Sacra had been to Liberia with SIM before, and volunteered to go again after he heard fellow missionaries Nancy Writebol and Dr. Kent Brantly had contracted the virus, SIM President Bruce Johnson said. Both were also flown to Atlanta for treatment and have been released.
"We learned a bit from (the) Emory experience," Dr. Philip Smith, with the University of Nebraska Medical Center, said about where Brantly and Writebol were treated.
"They found that after they took care of these patients for a little while that they were comfortable backing down ... Even though it's backing down, it's still two or three layers of gloves instead of one. It's no comparison to what you would do in an ordinary hospital floor," he said, CNN affiliate KETV reported.
Human trial of experimental Ebola vaccine begins
Sacra started to show symptoms of haemorrhagic fever on Friday evening. Health care workers did an Ebola test on Monday, which came back positive for the deadly virus.
Sacra was following all protocols and taking all necessary precautions against Ebola, Johnson said. It is unclear how he became infected, but SIM is working with the CDC to determine the point of contact.





































Most Popular

Today's five most popular stories




Serbia and Albania game abandoned after drone invasion sparks brawl








George Clooney's wife takes his name








How to eat sushi








Hong Kong police arrest 45 in clashes








Starting a business? Here are the 10 best emerging cities to launch your startup



















Part of complete coverage on 
Ebola outbreak


What you need to know

October 10, 2014 -- Updated 0939 GMT (1739 HKT)




These questions and answers will give you the latest information on the deadly virus and what's being done to stop its spread.



U.S. concern over spread of Ebola

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 1329 GMT (2129 HKT)




Kisha Bell walks into the Neighborhood Medical Center in Dallas complaining of abdominal pain. But she has a much more pressing concern weighing on her mind. 



Union slams hospital for lack of protocol

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 1929 GMT (0329 HKT)




The hospital where two health care workers contracted Ebola while caring for a patient didn't have protocols on how to deal with the deadly virus," a nurses' union claims. 



Five ways the CDC got it wrong

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 1655 GMT (0055 HKT)




Public health experts are asking whether the CDC is partly to blame for problems with Ebola in the U.S. Here are 5 things they say the CDC is getting wrong.



Can pets get or spread Ebola? 

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 2237 GMT (0637 HKT)




The lack of solid protocol on what to do with Ebola victims' pets and what little is known about the risk has caused one dog to be euthanized and another quarantined. 



Who is Ebola patient Nina Pham?

October 15, 2014 -- Updated 0249 GMT (1049 HKT)




She tackled one of the toughest jobs any nurse could take -- treating a highly contagious Ebola patient. And somehow along the way, she contracted it herself.



A look at Ebola protective gear

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 0558 GMT (1358 HKT)




Rosie Tomkins takes a look at the protective suits that are worn by some Ebola medical workers in Africa.



Enormous risk for caregivers

October 12, 2014 -- Updated 2057 GMT (0457 HKT)




They dedicate their lives to saving others, but as Ebola spreads, health care workers must also focus on themselves. 



How could nurse contract Ebola?

October 14, 2014 -- Updated 2221 GMT (0621 HKT)




On the surface, the nurse seemed to have taken all the precautions needed to protect herself from Ebola. 



How hospitals handle Ebola patients

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1252 GMT (2052 HKT)




First, a Texas hospital came under fire for releasing a sick Liberian man without testing him for Ebola.



9 ways travelers handle Ebola anxiety

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1833 GMT (0233 HKT)




With Ebola panic traveling faster than a 787, travelers trapped in metal containers at 30,000 feet are quickly splitting into camps. 



First Ebola death in U.S.

October 8, 2014 -- Updated 1919 GMT (0319 HKT)




Thomas Eric Duncan left Africa for the United States, by official accounts, a healthy man. Just over two weeks later, he passed away.



Protection from Ebola

October 13, 2014 -- Updated 1242 GMT (2042 HKT)




From full-body suits to improvised face coverings, here's a look at ways health workers protect themselves in some of the hardest hit areas.



Ebola drugs are in the works

October 8, 2014 -- Updated 1158 GMT (1958 HKT)




Scientists racing to develop something that will stop the largest Ebola epidemic in history are trying a variety of experimental drugs on patients. 



Who are the American Ebola patients?

October 6, 2014 -- Updated 1657 GMT (0057 HKT)




Here is a look at the American patients who have been diagnosed with this deadly virus. 



Can you catch Ebola on a plane?

October 7, 2014 -- Updated 2350 GMT (0750 HKT)




You're settling into your tiny coach seat on your next business trip, and the person next to you starts coughing. 



Ebola outbreak in West Africa

October 12, 2014 -- Updated 1535 GMT (2335 HKT)




Click through our gallery as we track the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. 







 









  Health Resources from HealthGrades   
The stages of depression treatment			  
7 mistakes people with MS make			  
Have heart disease? 8 facts that may …			  
6 facts about biologics for Crohn's			  
Preventing food allergies			       













   



Loading weather data ...














Home | Video | World | U.S. | Africa | Asia | Europe | Latin America | Middle East | Business | World Sport | Entertainment | Tech | Travel | iReport
Tools & Widgets | RSS | Podcasts | Blogs | CNN Mobile | My Profile | E-mail Alerts | CNN Shop | Site map | CNN Partner Hotels



CNN en ESPAÑOL | CNN Chile | CNN México | العربية | 日本語 | Türkçe


© 2014  Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Terms of service | Privacy guidelines | AdChoices  | Advertise with us | License our content | About us | Contact us | Work for us | Help
CNN TV | HLN | Transcripts




  







