BBC News - Ebola crisis: Liberian troops impose slum quarantineBBC News - Ebola crisis: Liberian troops impose slum quarantine












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























20 August 2014
Last updated at 13:21 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola crisis: Liberian troops impose slum quarantine


West Point, Liberia's largest slum, lies on the Atlantic Ocean


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 Security forces in Liberia's capital Monrovia have deployed to enforce a quarantine in a large slum area in order to contain the spread of Ebola.
The move set off protests from angry residents in West Point and people gathered at roadblocks to complain.
The president has also ordered a countrywide night-time curfew as part of new anti-Ebola measures.
Since the beginning of the year, 1,350 people have died of the virus in four West African countries.

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
We have been unable to control the spread due to continued denials... disregard for the advice of health workers and disrespect for the warnings by the government”
End Quote
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf
Liberian president
 New UN figures show that between 17 and 18 August, there were 221 new cases and 106 deaths.
A top Lagos doctor has just died of the virus, bringing the number of people who have died of Ebola in Nigeria to five, the health ministry said.
Colleagues said consultant Stella Ameyo Adadevo was the first medic to order that a sick patient from Liberia be tested for Ebola when he was admitted in July.
"We owe her a lot; she managed the situation like a thorough professional that she was. She had helped Nigeria to contain the epidemic in her own way," Akin Osibogun, the chief medical director at Lagos University Teaching Hospital, told Nigeria's Premium Times newspaper.


Forces from the police, army and fire service are being used to enforce the Ebola quarantine in Monrovia



Liberia is already under a state of emergency

Kenyan travel restrictions have now taken effect, blocking travellers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea - the three countries most affected by the outbreak. Earlier this week Cameroon shut its border with Nigeria.



At the scene: Nathalie Wakam, BBC Africa, Douala
The closure of the border between Cameroon and Nigeria because of the Ebola outbreak is affecting the busy car market in Douala, Cameroon's economic hub. It is full of traders and mechanics, and is the place to go for anything vehicle-related.
Most of the dealers are Nigerian and import second-hand parts as well as new vehicles. They understand the need for caution but are concerned about trade.
"Since last week our goods are there in the port in Calabar - there's no movement," one of them said. The goods tend to be offloaded at Calabar, in southern Nigeria, shipped to other ports in Cameroon and then transported by road. "We are pleading with the Cameroonian and Nigerian governments to seek solutions," another trader said.
The closure was officially announced on Monday, but cross-border activity has been affected since last week. "There are families that have travelled to Nigeria for holidays and now they're supposed to come back for the resumption of school but they are blocked," a businessman explained.



'Teargas fired'
There is no known cure for Ebola, but the WHO has ruled that untested drugs can be used to treat patients in light of the scale of the current outbreak - the deadliest to date.
The experimental drug ZMapp has been used to treat several people who contracted Ebola in Liberia but the US firm that makes the drug says it has for now run out of it, so the only way to stop the current outbreak is to isolate the victims.
The BBC's Jonathan Paye-Layleh in Monrovia says troops are patrolling in West Point, the country's largest slum which is home to more than 50,000 and sprawls along the Atlantic coast. Ferries have been halted and coast-guard boats are monitoring the coastline.



Ebola Virus Disease (EVD)


Fruit bats are believed to be a major carrier of the Ebola virus but do not show symptoms


 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Fatality rate can reach 90% - but current outbreak has about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no vaccine or cure
 Supportive care such as rehydrating patients who have diarrhoea and vomiting can help recovery
 Fruit bats, a delicacy for some West Africans, are considered to be virus' natural host



A resident told the BBC that teargas was fired by police to disperse angry crowds.
Our reporter says fear and tension has been growing in the slum for days - a health centre was attacked on Saturday and residents feel not enough has been done to protect them.
"We have been unable to control the spread due to continued denials, cultural varying practices, disregard for the advice of health workers and disrespect for the warnings by the government," President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said on Tuesday evening.
Dolo Town, about 40km (25 miles) from Monrovia, has also been put under quarantine and all entertainment centres are to be closed and video centres are to shut by 18:00 local time.







More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch














Related Internet links


World Health Organization




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top stories



Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards


Global shares slide on growth fears


Reeva's death 'end of the world'


BBC website blocked in China









Features & Analysis




Diet U-turn

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  




Fighting for justice

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss  	
				  




Rich list

If Black America were a country, where would it rank globally? 	
				  




Bible Belt ballot

The place where country music and abortion don't mix 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Second Texas Ebola case announced



3: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



4: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



5: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



3: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



4: Why is the US Navy practising for war with China?



5: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



6: Dutch bikers join fight against IS



7: Girl meets Hillary Clinton, freaks out



8: Giant kangaroo 'walked on two feet' 



9: US spy Greenglass's death revealed



10: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



Video/Audio




1: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



3: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



4: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



5: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



6: In 60 seconds: What is Ebola? Watch



7: How does Ebola attack human cells? Watch



8: Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo unveiled Watch



9: Drunken hovercraft landing on CCTV Watch



10: On board USS George Washington Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Unexpected oasis

Crime plagues other parts of Honduras, but not this colourful utopian island











Programmes



Click Watch

The Russian artist who plays music on his arm through a barcode tattoo






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    








