BBC News - Ebola 'threat to world security'- UN Security CouncilBBC News - Ebola 'threat to world security'- UN Security Council












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada


























19 September 2014
Last updated at 02:10


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola 'threat to world security'- UN Security Council


Health workers have been struggling to contain the outbreak in West Africa - this woman was one suspected case in Liberia


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 The UN Security Council has declared the outbreak of the Ebola virus in West Africa a "threat to international peace and security".
The council unanimously adopted a resolution calling on states to provide more resources to combat the outbreak.
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon warned an emergency meeting of the council that the number of Ebola infections was doubling every three weeks.
More than 2,600 people have now died in the worst Ebola outbreak on record. 
Cases doubling
Mr Ban said the "gravity and scale of the situation now require a level of international action unprecedented for a health emergency".


The UN heard that the international response would need to be 20 times greater than it is now if the outbreak were to be controlled



Never before has the United Nations Security Council met to confront a public health crisis

He announced the establishment of an "emergency UN mission" working with the World Health Organization (WHO) to combat the crisis, saying he would convene a "high-level meeting" next week.
The council heard that the international response had to be three times bigger than it was now to contain the crisis - the number of cases is doubling every two weeks in west Africa.
The resolution attracted 130 co-sponsors - a UN record - and calls on countries to provide urgent aid, such as medical staff and field hospitals.
The resolution also calls for travel bans imposed by some states to be lifted, saying the countries need to have access to aid instead of being isolated.


The disease is spreading quickly in West Africa, with the number of cases doubling every two weeks



The UN Security Council resolution calls on countries to provide urgent aid, such as medical staff and field hospitals

Council members heard that the international response would need to be 20 times greater than it was now, if the outbreak were to be controlled.
The Security Council has never previously met to confront a public health crisis, reports the BBC's Nick Bryant from New York.
It is only the second time that a public health issue has been addressed at the council, the first instance being HIV/Aids, our correspondent adds.
A doctor appearing via video link from Liberia warned that if the international community did not step up its response, "we would be wiped out".
Meanwhile officials in Guinea searching for a team of health workers and journalists who went missing while trying to raise awareness of Ebola have found several bodies.
A spokesman for Guinea's government said the bodies included those of three journalists in the team.
They went missing after being attacked on Tuesday in a village near the southern city of Nzerekore.
In Sierra Leone a three-day curfew or lockdown intended to stop the spread of the virus has come into effect.
The aim of the move is to keep people confined to their homes while health workers isolate new cases and prevent Ebola from spreading further.
Critics say the lockdown will destroy trust between doctors and the public.












Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.
























The BBC looks at the scale of the challenge the Ebola outbreak presents



Ebola virus disease (EVD)

 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Spread by body fluids, such as blood and saliva
 Current outbreak has mortality rate of about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no proven vaccine or cure
 Press divided on response to Ebola
Ebola: Mapping the outbreak
How bad can it get?
'Biological war': A week on the Ebola frontline



Have you been affected by the Ebola outbreak? You can send us your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk

Alternatively, you can get in touch using the form below.







(Required)  Name




(Required)  Your E-mail address




(Required)  Town & Country




(Required)  Your telephone number






(Required)  Comments





If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions
Send
Clear






More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch




















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top Stories



Disabled pay row minister apologises


UK unemployment falls below 2m


Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Cellar slave girl to receive £100,000


Reeva's death 'end of the world'









Features




Worth following?

Work out how much following football costs you 	
				  




Fighting for justice 

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss 	
				  




Balkan brawl

Drones, flags and violence in abandoned match 		  BBC Sport





$10,000 please

The bank employee who asked the boss to issue a mass pay rise  	
				  




Diet U-turn 

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Disabled row minister urged to quit



2: Should people be eating more fat?  



3: Battery warning after child deaths 



4: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



5: Second Texas Ebola case announced



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Cellar slave girl to receive £100k



3: Disabled row minister urged to quit



4: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



5: Chopper crash 'quite extraordinary'



6: State sets out Pistorius jail call



7: Dog death mum 'paid ultimate price'



8: Pregnant Verity divides town



9: Price of Football calculator 2014



10: Should people be eating more fat?  



Video/Audio




1: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



2: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



4: Ditching Man Utd for League Two Watch



5: Clashes erupt in Serbia Albania match Watch



6: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



7: Mrs Clooney on marriage and marbles Watch



8: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



9: Michelle Obama dances with turnip Watch



10: Passenger plane springs internal leak Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    












