The Mathematics of Ebola Trigger Stark Warnings: Act Now or Regret It | WIREDThe Mathematics of Ebola Trigger Stark Warnings: Act Now or Regret It | WIRED




WIRED





					GEAR




Autopia







What Malaysia Flight 370 Taught Us About Looking for Missing Planes









Whoops: The Self-Driving Tesla May Make Us Love Urban Sprawl Again









An Easy-to-Install Solar Charger That Juices Your EV Off the Grid



  



Gadget Lab







Google Announces a New Phone, Tablet, and Android 'Lollipop'









Note Worthy









Why Inventors Misjudge How We'll Abuse Their Creations



  



Reviews







Note Worthy









The August Smart Lock Works Like Magic—When It Works









Pocketful of Miracles



  

 



					SCIENCE




Science







Travel Through Time With These Strange and Beautiful Visualizations of the Universe









Fantastically Wrong: The Murderous, Sometimes Sexy History of the Mermaid









Why Bats Are Such Good Hosts for Ebola and Other Deadly Diseases



  



Science Blogs







Think Your State Doesn't Need an Earthquake Plan? Think Again.









 "I Just Don't Understand Physics": Midterm Advice For Students









Quantitative Biology and Quantitative Football



  

 



					ENTERTAINMENT




Game|Life







Game|Life Podcast: Why the Gold Rush for Videogame Kickstarters Is Over









This $99 Headset Could Get All of Us Hooked on VR









Sorcerer King Forces You to Build an Empire in a World Gone to Hell



  



Playbook







How the Man Who Wired Facebook Helped Build the NFL Stadium of the Future









Canoeing Through a No-Escape Gauntlet of Whitecaps and Boulders









How I Survived Biking Through the Mojave Desert for Three Days



  



Underwire







There Will Never Be a Better Indie Film Than Pulp Fiction









Pulp Fiction Is Like Good Sex—It's Hard to Explain









WIRED Binge-Watching Guide: Gilmore Girls



  

 



					BUSINESS




Business







Down With Cable! Why HBO Is Finally Launching a Standalone Streaming Service









New York's Bitcoin Regulations May Not Kill Startups After All









Apple and Facebook Pay for Female Employees to Freeze Eggs



  

Business Conference


Promotion





					In today's business world, disruption is a constant force that never lets up. At the annual WIRED Business Conference: Disruptive by Design, we celebrate the creative power of bold new ideas and the people that make them happen.
					

					See the event >
				



 


Enterprise







Microsoft Says Windows Will Run Docker, the Next Big Thing in Cloud Computing









Video Bloggers Get 'Microstopped' by Microsoft Takedown Notices









Startup Crunches 100 Terabytes of Data in a Record 23 Minutes



  



Innovation Insights







Mobility: Are We Missing the Big Picture?









Wearable Fatigue? Stick It In Your Ear









Meritocracy: The Workplace Culture That Breeds Success



  

 



					SECURITY




Danger Room







The Navy's Developing Little Autonomous Boats to Defend Its Ships









WWI Zeppelins: Not Too Deadly, But Scary as Hell









Incredible Close-Up Drone Video of an Erupting Volcano in Iceland



  



Threat Level







Laura Poitras on the Crypto Tools That Made Her Snowden Film Possible









There Is a New Security Vulnerability Named POODLE, and It Is Not Cute









Russian 'Sandworm' Hack Has Been Spying on Foreign Governments for Years



  

 



					DESIGN




Design







A Trippy Mind-Reading Goo That Reacts to Your Emotions









A New Alphabet Book With Dozens of Offbeat Drawings for Every Letter









A 3-D Printed Seat With a Cellular Structure That Molds to Your Butt



  



Raw File







Photos: The Ruins of the USSR's Secret Nuclear Cities









Photos: The Quiet Defiance of Hong Kong's Slumbering Protestors









Haunting Photos of Houses in Moonlight



  

 



					OPINION




Opinion







Vaccines for Deadly Diseases Must Work on Both Animals and Humans









Pulp Fiction Is Like Good Sex—It's Hard to Explain









Don't Listen to Snapchat's Excuses. Security Is Its Job



  

 



					MAGAZINE


Current Issue





Subscribe










Why Inventors Misjudge How We'll Abuse Their Creations









This Man's Simple System Could Transform American Medicine









The Strange and Radical New World of 3-D Printed Body Parts






 

Video









Insider









			Subscribe
		



 







  

RSS


Search


 
 
  
 













Superbug

 


The Mathematics of Ebola Trigger Stark Warnings: Act Now or Regret It



By Maryn McKenna  
09.14.14  |  
12:07 pm  |  
Permalink 


Share on Facebook0 

Tweet
 


 


 







 Daliborlev (CC), Flickr
The Ebola epidemic in Africa has continued to expand since I last wrote about it, and as of a week ago, has accounted for more than 4,200 cases and 2,200 deaths in five countries: Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra Leone. That is extraordinary: Since the virus was discovered, no Ebola outbreak’s toll has risen above several hundred cases. This now truly is a type of epidemic that the world has never seen before. In light of that, several articles were published recently that are very worth reading.
The most arresting is a piece published last week in the journal Eurosurveillance, which is the peer-reviewed publication of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (the EU’s Stockholm-based version of the US CDC). The piece is an attempt to assess mathematically how the epidemic is growing, by using case reports to determine the “reproductive number.” (Note for non-epidemiology geeks: The basic reproductive number — usually shorted to R0 or “R-nought” — expresses how many cases of disease are likely to be caused by any one infected person. An R0 of less than 1 means an outbreak will die out; an R0 of more than 1 means an outbreak can be expected to increase. If you saw the movie Contagion, this is what Kate Winslet stood up and wrote on a whiteboard early in the film.)
The Eurosurveillance paper, by two researchers from the University of Tokyo and Arizona State University, attempts to derive what the reproductive rate has been in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. (Note for actual epidemiology geeks: The calculation is for the effective reproductive number, pegged to a point in time, hence actually Rt.) They come up with an R of at least 1, and in some cases 2; that is, at certain points, sick persons have caused disease in two others.
You can see how that could quickly get out of hand, and in fact, that is what the researchers predict. Here is their stop-you-in-your-tracks assessment:
In a worst-case hypothetical scenario, should the outbreak continue with recent trends, the case burden could gain an additional 77,181 to 277,124 cases by the end of 2014.
That is a jaw-dropping number.
The epidemic curves of the Ebola epidemic; look especially at the line for Liberia. From Nishiura and Chowell; original here.
What should we do with information like this? At the end of last week, two public health experts published warnings that we need to act urgently in response.
First, Dr. Richard E. Besser: He is now the chief health editor of ABC News, but earlier was acting director of the US CDC, including during the 2009-10 pandemic of H1N1 flu; so, someone who understands what it takes to stand up a public-health response to an epidemic. In his piece in the Washington Post, “The world yawns as Ebola takes hold in West Africa,” he says bluntly: “I don’t think the world is getting the message.”
He goes on:
The level of response to the Ebola outbreak is totally inadequate. At the CDC, we learned that a military-style response during a major health crisis saves lives…
We need to establish large field hospitals staffed by Americans to treat the sick. We need to implement infection-control practices to save the lives of health-care providers. We need to staff burial teams to curb disease transmission at funerals. We need to implement systems to detect new flare-ups that can be quickly extinguished. A few thousand U.S. troops could provide the support that is so desperately needed.
Aid ought to be provided on humanitarian grounds alone, he argues — but if that isn’t adequate rationale, he adds that aid offered now could protect us in the West from the non-medical effects of Ebola’s continuing to spread: “Epidemics destabilize governments, and many governments in West Africa have a very short history of stability. U.S. aid would improve global security.”
Should we really be concerned about the global effect of this Ebola epidemic? In the New York Times, Dr. Michael T. Osterholm of the University of Minnesota* — an epidemiologist and federal advisor famous for inadvertently predicting the 2001 anthrax attacks — says yes, we should. In “What We’re Afraid to Say About Ebola,” he warns: “The Ebola epidemic in West Africa has the potential to alter history as much as any plague has ever done.”
He goes on:
There are two possible future chapters to this story that should keep us up at night.
The first possibility is that the Ebola virus spreads from West Africa to megacities in other regions of the developing world. This outbreak is very different from the 19 that have occurred in Africa over the past 40 years. It is much easier to control Ebola infections in isolated villages. But there has been a 300 percent increase in Africa’s population over the last four decades, much of it in large city slums…
The second possibility is one that virologists are loath to discuss openly but are definitely considering in private: that an Ebola virus could mutate to become transmissible through the air… viruses like Ebola are notoriously sloppy in replicating, meaning the virus entering one person may be genetically different from the virus entering the next. The current Ebola virus’s hyper-evolution is unprecedented; there has been more human-to-human transmission in the past four months than most likely occurred in the last 500 to 1,000 years. Each new infection represents trillions of throws of the genetic dice.
Like Besser, Osterholm says that the speed, size and organization of the response that is needed demands a governmental investment, but he looks beyond the US government alone:
We need someone to take over the position of “command and control.” The United Nations is the only international organization that can direct the immense amount of medical, public health and humanitarian aid that must come from many different countries and nongovernmental groups to smother this epidemic. Thus far it has played at best a collaborating role, and with everyone in charge, no one is in charge.
A Security Council resolution could give the United Nations total responsibility for controlling the outbreak, while respecting West African nations’ sovereignty as much as possible. The United Nations could, for instance, secure aircraft and landing rights…
The United Nations should provide whatever number of beds are needed; the World Health Organization has recommended 1,500, but we may need thousands more. It should also coordinate the recruitment and training around the world of medical and nursing staff, in particular by bringing in local residents who have survived Ebola, and are no longer at risk of infection. Many countries are pledging medical resources, but donations will not result in an effective treatment system if no single group is responsible for coordinating them.
I’ve spent enough time around public health people, in the US and in the field, to understand that they prefer to express themselves conservatively. So when they indulge in apocalyptic language, it is unusual, and notable.
When one of the most senior disease detectives in the US begins talking about “plague,” knowing how emotive that word can be, and another suggests calling out the military, it is time to start paying attention.
*Disclosure: From 2006 to 2010, I worked part-time at the disease news site, CIDRAP, that Osterholm founded. For that matter, I used to be in a book club with Besser, too.



Share on Facebook0
Tweet







 Reddit 

Digg
Stumble Upon
Email



	Tags: Besser, CDC, Ebola, ECDC, Osterholm, reproductive number

Discuss | 
Permalink
 












 
About Maryn McKenna



Subscribe



Maryn McKenna is a journalist for national magazines and a Senior Fellow of the Schuster Institute at Brandeis University. She is the author of SUPERBUG and BEATING BACK THE DEVIL, and is writing a book about food for National Geographic.            


Wired Science Blogs
Our network of all-star science bloggers.




Beyond Apollo
David S. F. Portree





Brain Watch
Christian Jarrett





Charismatic Minifauna
Gwen Pearson





Dot Physics
Rhett Allain





Elemental
Deborah Blum





Empirical Zeal
Aatish Bhatia





Eruptions
Erik Klemetti





The Extremo Files
Jeffrey Marlow





Map Lab
Wired Map Addicts





Proof
Adam Rogers





Social Dimension
Samuel Arbesman





Superbug
Maryn McKenna





Zoologic
Mary Bates



Read the latest Wired Science Blogs articles


Follow us on Twitter




SPACE PHOTO OF THE DAY










Wired
science blogs
    


            Editor
        

Betsy Mason




Manager


Nick Stockton



Subscribe to Wired Magazine







 






Advertisement



Services







Quick Links:
Contact Us
|
Login/Register
Logout
|
Newsletter
|
RSS Feeds
|
WIRED Jobs
|
WIRED Mobile
|
FAQ
|
Sitemap





 


 


Collapse

Previous Article
Leading a Double Life Turned This Woman Into a Best-Selling Author


Next Article
Wernher von Braun's Fantastic Vision: Ferry Rocket

 


FAQ | 
Contact Us | 
WIRED Staff | 
Advertising | 
Press Center | 
Subscription Services | 
Newsletter | 
RSS Feeds


Condé Nast Web Sites:
Webmonkey |
Reddit | 
ArsTechnica |
Details |
Golf Digest |
GQ |
New Yorker





Subscribe to a magazine:
View All Titles
Allure
Architectural Digest
Bon Appétit
Brides
Condé Nast Traveler
Details
Glamour
Golf Digest
Golf World
GQ
Lucky
Self
Teen Vogue
The New Yorker
Vanity Fair
Vogue
W
WIRED


Condé Nast web sites:
Allure
Architectural Digest
ArsTechnica
Bon Appétit
Brides.com
Condé Nast Traveler
Condé Nast Portfolio
Concierge
Details
Epicurious
Glamour
Golf Digest
Golf World
GQ
Hotel Chatter
Jaunted
Lucky
Nutrition Data
Reddit
Self
Style.com
Teen Vogue
The New Yorker
The Scene
Vanity Fair
Vogue
Webmonkey
W


International Sites:
Wired UK
Wired Italy
Wired Japan





WIRED.com © 2014 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this Site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (effective 01/02/2014) and Privacy Policy (effective 01/02/2014). Your California Privacy Rights.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices

 








 






















