Ebola Affects More Than Just Health, Experts Declare - South-South NewsEbola Affects More Than Just Health, Experts Declare - South-South News











About UsFAQsContact Us




Select Language: Javascript is required to use GTranslate
multilingual website and translation delivery network

           Select LanguageEnglishArabicChinese (Simplified)DutchFrenchGermanItalianJapanesePortugueseRussianSpanish




				﻿
Text Size: 







Updated On:  Wednesday, October 15 2014




















World News Headlines





				Chatter: Arming rebels ra...				



				Hong Kong police accused ...				





				Libyan army, residents ba...				



				North, South Korea milita...				

















Home


World News



World News Videos




South-South News



Daily Video Coverage


Development Talks


South-South News Photos


SSN Features




Inside the UN



UN Videos


UN Photos


UN News




The UN at Work



UN Agencies Videos


UN Agencies Photos


UN Agencies News




Civil Society



Civil Society Videos


Civil Society News




Intergovernmental



IGOs Videos


IGOs News



 




 























				Latest Stories
			





							US Stocks Drop Sharply Amid Global Growth Concerns						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 14:18															)
													




							Catholic Church Signals More Acceptance of Gays						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 14:18															)
													




							Curbing Biodiversity Loss Needs Giant Leap Forward						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 14:01															)
													




							IS Militants Continue Deadly Attacks Across Iraq						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 12:25															)
													




							US Embassy Warns of al-Shabab Attack in Ethiopia						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 11:49															)
													




							N. Korean Defector Vows More Airborne Leafleting						


															(
 								Wednesday, October 15 2014 11:11															)
													
































Home|South-South News|SSN Features|UN Coverage|UN Agencies and Other Departments





					Ebola Affects More Than Just Health, Experts Declare					



										Category: UN Agencies and Other Departments 

					
				Wednesday, August 20 2014				
 
										
											Content by South-South News





















Content by: South-South News

20 August 2014, New York, USA | Brendan Pastor – With the death toll from the Ebola virus topping 1,200 persons across three countries in West Africa, observers are becoming keenly aware of the disease’s effects on other elements of society beyond just health.

“This disease is affecting how societies work; it's affecting the social setting; it's affecting economies; it's affecting governance. It's got humanitarian consequences. It's got political repercussions. It may have security impacts,” said David Nabarro, the Senior United Nations System Coordinator for Ebola.



Beyond the obvious health impacts of Ebola on the West African countries of Guinea, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Liberia, the disease has create severe disturbances in economic and financial conditions. Several major airlines have suspended flights in and out of some of the countries, while others have reduced their service. In addition, many businesses and agricultural areas are seeing disturbances due to a rise in paranoia surrounding the disease.

Most pressingly, a series of violence has broken out in some places, as looters enter Ebola clinic camps and release some of the contained persons who are infected.

But the response to the outbreak has been called weak by some humanitarian aid groups.

A spokesperson with Medecins Sans Frontieres expressed dismay at the slow movement by the international community and the tepid response in some other regional countries to what amounts to a serious international health emergency.

Nabarro role as UN System Coordinator necessarily means he is tasked with the unenviable responsibility of facilitating effective management of the crisis among many different agencies and programs.

Nevertheless, he insists that the UN’s job remains within the sphere of coordination of local actors.

“Our fundamental role here is one of supporting people and their communities,” Nabarro said during a press conference, adding how the role is “also of strengthening and responding to the governments of the countries that are affected by Ebola virus disease.”
 

Tags:



						Health					
 
																				

						Africa					
 
																				

						Ebola					
 
						



< Prev


Next >





 




Related Stories









								UN Main Bodies							






				None Are Insulated From Ebola Threat, UN Warns	
			



				Member States Reflect on 20 Years of ICPD	
			



				Watch Emma Watson's Amazing Speech about Feminism	
			



				Leonardo DiCaprio to Open UN Climate Change Summit, UN Chief Announces	
			






										View More >>									








								UN Agencies and Other Departments							






				Noam Chomsky Brings Trademark Criticism of Israel to UNGA	
			



				Deadly Myths: Keeping Children with Albinism Safe in Tanzania	
			



				In Africa's Development, A Key Role for the UN is Seen	
			



				Qatar and UNODC Unite the World to Fight Crime	
			






										View More >>									











 




























GET CONNECTED WITH US
























Subscribe to our newsletter






















UN and UN Agencies Reports on Development


Prev
Next











 






												Economic Crisis Through a Gender Lens 											













 






												MENA Region update on HIV/AIDS											













 






												An Unequal Rise in Wellbeing for Children in SE ...											













 






												Determined Government Rule Way to Trade Recovery											













 






												Water Energy Food Nexus: Share the Resources											



















Civil Society Reports on Development









 






												How Shared Societies Make for Inclusive ...											













 






												Unlocking Competitiveness in SMEs											













 






												Despite Diversity, Small States Share Common ...											













 






												For Development to Work, Public Budgets Must ...											













 






												How Does Industrial Expansion Threaten Africa's ...											





























About UsFAQsArea of FocusPartnershipsFraud AlertContact UsSite Map


 
Copyright © 2014 South-South News. All Rights Reserved.

 






 