Discharging Ebola survivors makes the pain worthwhile - health - 06 August 2014 - New ScientistDischarging Ebola survivors makes the pain worthwhile - health - 06 August 2014 - New Scientist














SUBSCRIBE & SAVE 74%


MANAGE MY ACCOUNT »
STUDENTS »
GIVE A GIFT »






Health



    










Log in




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close




My New Scientist






Home
News
In-Depth Articles
Opinion
CultureLab
Galleries
Topic Guides
Last Word





Subscribe


Dating




Look for Science Jobs






SPACE
TECH
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
LIFE
PHYSICS&MATH
SCIENCE IN SOCIETY
Cookies & Privacy















Home
|Health
|Opinion
|

		News


		Discharging Ebola survivors makes the pain worthwhile


		22:00 06 August 2014 by
			Jessica Hamzelou

			For similar stories, visit the
				Epidemics and Pandemics
					
						and Interviews
					
						Topic Guides






As well as a flood of patients, the only working Ebola treatment centre in Sierra Leone has to deal with rumours of organ harvesting and infected patients who hide, says Anja Wolz, an emergency coordinator at the Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) Ebola treatment centre in Kailahun, Sierra Leone.
What is the situation at your treatment centre in Kailahun?We have a capacity of 80 beds, but in the last 6 weeks, we have seen 260 patients, of which 170 have been confirmed to have Ebola. We've had 89 deaths and 36 patients who have recovered.
We are also working on health promotion – informing people about the virus and how to prevent it. There is a lot of misinformation out there, so we train community health workers and traditional healers, but there are still people with Ebola who are hiding.
Why are people with Ebola hiding?They are afraid. We've had 89 deaths at the centre. People think that, because there is no treatment available, they will come here to die.
There are a lot of rumours that we are cutting off heads. Or that we are taking organs and selling them. At the same time, some people are saying that Ebola does not exist.





So the outbreak might be worse than we think it is, because there are infected people unaccounted for?It's an important point. The epidemiological system is not functioning here. We should be tracking survivors and people with the virus. If we could see where they are going, we could react, and inform those villages about Ebola. But we only have four epidemiologists here, so this is really difficult.
What would make it possible to track infected people?We need epidemiologists. We need experienced doctors. We need health staff and infection control staff. We need a greater social mobilisation effort. We also need more money. The World Health Organization has said it has a $100 million plan, and will send more experts, but we haven't seen anything in the field yet.
What's the atmosphere like in Kailahun?Here in the city, people are more open about Ebola, and are seeking treatment. But there are real problems with isolated communities. For example, three weeks ago, a team from MSF visited a community that doesn't believe Ebola exists. They had carried out an unsafe burial of someone who had died from the infection. Traditionally, here, you undress the person, wash, clean and dress the body and then kiss the body without any protection.
To do a safe burial, you have to be protected, and you need to disinfect the body with chlorine solution, put it in a body bag and bury the corpse in a 2-metre-deep grave.
The MSF team did saliva tests, and found two people with a high virus load. Since then, our centre has received more than 30 patients from the village, all of whom attended this unsafe funeral. It's sad, because so many people have been infected, and so many people have died.
Why are people saying Ebola doesn't exist?These villages are completely isolated – they have no internet, and not even network coverage for a mobile phone. When the health workers come by, the villagers think what they are saying is not true. Instead, we are now asking Ebola survivors to go to these villages, to tell the truth about what is going on.
What is the most difficult thing about your work?The problem is too big. It's out of control. At the moment, we are the only functioning case management centre for Sierra Leone. And we are nearly completely full. Every week there is a new village of cases coming.
People are starting to understand how big the problem is now, because a lot of people have friends, family and colleagues who have died from Ebola. The president has visited our centre. On Monday, Sierra Leone held a stay-at-home day, for people to reflect on Ebola and pray.
Are you afraid of contracting Ebola?At MSF we have strict controls. The safety and security of our staff and patients is of the upmost importance. Everybody who works with us in the centre receives training, and if they don't respect protocol, their contract is terminated. We have full personal protective equipment – gumboots, overalls, two pairs of gloves, a mask with a hat and goggles. No part of the skin is exposed. We haven't had anyone infected so far in Kailahun, and we are very proud of that.
I personally have a lot of respect for Ebola. If I was to say I was worried or scared, I would be in the wrong job.
How are you coping personally?It is difficult. You see a lot of people dying. But on Sunday we discharged nine survivors. This gives you your power back. You know you are doing your best. You say, OK, I know why I am here.





















If you would like to reuse any content from New Scientist, either in print or online, please contact the syndication department first for permission. New Scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are a variety of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the copyright to.





















Every week a new village of cases comes to see Anja Wolz at Sierra Leone's only working Ebola treatment centre (Image: Sylvain Cherkaoui/Cosmos)


ADVERTISEMENT









More
Latest news


Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



A smell-defying mystery to savour

18:00 15 October 2014
Losing their sense of smell can leave people feeling emotionally blunted – so why is a new exhibition about anosmia so moving, asks Mick O'Hare



Stem cells improve vision enough for horse riding


00:00 15 October 2014
People blinded because of degenerating retinal cells have seen improvements in their sight thanks to injections of retinal cells made from stem cells



What I'd ask Spider-Man, mascot of bio-inspiration


20:00 14 October 2014
Like Peter Parker, Jeff Karp takes ideas from nature and improves on them to make the world a better place. His superpower is innovating in medical technology



see all related stories




MoreLatest news


What would a world without fossil fuels look like?


20:00 15 October 2014
Our advanced civilisation is built on easily exploited coal, oil and gas. New Scientist explores an alternative history that holds lessons for us all



Extinct giant kangaroos didn't hop, they walked 


19:00 15 October 2014
They had faces like rabbits and some were 2 metres tall, but the oddest thing about extinct relatives of modern kangaroos is that they walked just like us



Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



Fly in the face of danger with first-person drone view


18:00 15 October 2014
Zip past obstacles at 160 kilometres an hour but without risking life and limb – the immersive sport of first-person video drone racing makes it possibleStomach-dropping speed and stunts are the norm in first-person drone racing, finds Hal Hodson



see all latest news



 



Most read




5 reasons to worry about a quagga mussel invasion
Pentagon warns the US military of climate change
Desktop sonic black hole emits Hawking radiation
Fish love skyscraper-style living under oil platforms
Exercise may be the best anti-ageing pill




Most read







 


FOLLOW US

Get editors' picks in your social streams


















This week's issue
Subscribe



For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues



18 October 2014





For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues




ADVERTISEMENT













Back to top




















Login




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close










About us

New Scientist

Syndication

Recruitment Advertising

Staff at New Scientist

Advertise

RBI Jobs




User Help
Contact Us
FAQ / Help
Disclaimer
Ts & Cs
Cookies
Privacy Policy




Subscriptions
Subscribe
Renew

Gift subscription
Student Subscription

My account

Back issues
Customer Service




Links
Site Map
Browse all articles
Magazine archive
NewScientistJobs
The Last Word
RSS Feeds

Online StoreiOS & Android apps
Low-bandwidth site




Science Jobs
Search all Jobs
Biology Jobs
Chemistry Jobs
Clinical Jobs
Earth & Environment Jobs
Engineering Jobs
Maths & IT Jobs
Careers Advice




© Copyright Reed Business Information Ltd.














