Why Are Americans so Scared of Ebola? - NBC NewsWhy Are Americans so Scared of Ebola? - NBC News









menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback
Ann Curry
Maria Shriver





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
How Fast Will Ebola Spread?
Texas Hospital Tough to Sue Over Ebola Care, Say Experts
Spacewalkers Get Space Station Back to Full Power
Dow Down 190: Stocks Tumble Despite Recovery Effort







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search















        BREAKING: Live Hong Kong Protests 







Cynthia Goldsmith / CDC via EPA file

                            50 days
                            



Ebola Virus Outbreak
185 of 562  
A colorized transmission electron micrograph (TEM) of an Ebola virus virion. An American doctor suffering from Ebola was improving at an Atlanta hospital, officials said, as reports emerged 04 August that he had received an experimental serum while still in Africa and near death. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) along with the US State Department, the US National Institute of Health and the World Health Organization (WHO) coordinated the delivery of the serum that Brantly and Writebol received, Samaritan's Purse said.
 


Why Are Americans so Scared of Ebola?



















By Maggie Fox

Nearly 40 percent of Americans believe there will be a “large outbreak” of Ebola virus in the United States, and more than a quarter worry that someone in their immediate families will be infected within the next year.The new survey shows that what people believe is not even close to the actual reality. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and just about every leading expert on infectious disease that you can find agrees: Ebola is very unlikely to spread in the United States. Even in a country affected by an outbreak, an individual’s chance of getting it are very low, but in the developed world, they’re virtually zero.“The risk of Ebola is also lower in more developed countries because they have the resources needed to implement best practices if a case — or suspected case — occurs. Even if an Ebola case were detected, authorities have the ability to quickly handle the case properly and prevent spread in the community,” the group International SOS, which helps evacuate travelers needing medical care in foreign countries, says on its website.
















So why the disconnect? Well, it might be our fault. Us, as in the news media, and the entertainment media. And, experts argue, people are not really responding illogically at all.“Guess what? Maggie Fox has been doing lots of stories about Ebola,” says Massachusetts-based risk perception consultant David Ropeik. “So it’s available to peoples’ awareness.”It’s better than watching a zombie movie, says New York based risk communication expert Jody Lanard. It’s frightening and it’s real.“I actually don’t think people in the West are responding out of proportion,” Lanard said. “They are responding with enormous interest to something that is really scary.”When news media report on a new threat, even if it’s a distant threat, it feels like it’s close to home, Ropeik says. “It’s called the availability heuristic,” Ropeik told NBC News. “It’s a mental shortcut for making sense of partial information.”"We have lazy brains. We don’t want to think about things in a lot of detail."News media have done a good job of accurately reporting the threat of catching Ebola — it’s very high if you are a health care worker in a poor country with limited resources, working double shifts with inadequate equipment. It’s very low if you are not in prolonged, direct contact with someone who is infected, or with the body of someone recently dead from Ebola.The virus isn’t carried in the air and probably isn’t easily transmitted from objects a sick person may have touched, either. All of those infected have had direct contact with bodily fluids such as blood, diarrhea or vomit.“Even though your stories may have included the fact that you have to have open sore or direct bodily contact to catch it, that is not the headline to most people here. We have lazy brains. We don’t want to think about things in a lot of detail,” Ropeik said.This, according to the survey done by Gillian SteelFisher and colleagues at the Harvard School of Public Health, means that 68 percent of those surveyed believe Ebola spreads very easily or somewhat easily.“We just don’t do all the homework. We never do,” Ropeik says.It’s human nature to imagine what it would be like if it did come close, Lanard says. “We all kind of imagine catching Ebola because that’s what you do with something new and really, really, really scary, Lanard said.“It’s not irrational. This is instinctive,” Ropeik adds. “This is just part of how humans do this stuff. It’s not stupid.”On top of that, people have a background of what they think is knowledge about Ebola, thanks to the entertainment industry. It started with “The Hot Zone,” the 1994 thriller billed as the “Terrifying True Story” of viral hemorrhagic fevers such as Ebola. The novel may be partly based on fact, but writer Richard Preston adds a liberal dose of imagination to his writing, and the 1995 movie “Outbreak,” based on Preston's book, took even more liberties with the truth.Blood doesn’t pour from the eyes, noses and mouths of victims, although they may hemorrhage, and while many suffer multiple organ failure, their organs do not dissolve in the way that Preston graphically and frighteningly describes.In 2003, one season of the hit series “24” portrayed an even deadlier and more transmissible virus, one that spread through the air and killed within hours. The main character in the 2011 film “Contagion” manages to spread a new kind of highly deadly virus around the world in a matter of days. And people become infected within seconds by the virus that zombifies them in “World War Z."People know Ebola doesn’t spread that way. They do know, however, that there is no drug that cures it and no vaccine that prevents it and that it kills anywhere between half and 90 percent of victims.
















“Dying from Ebola does suck,” Ropeik says. “It’s not a good way to go. That makes it scarier.”It’s what University of Oregon psychologist Paul Slovic calls the dread factor. “There’s something essentially dreadful about this disease,” says Slovic, who is also president of consulting firm Decision Research. “It hits all the risk-perception buttons.”People also doubt scientists who reassure them that the risk is minimal or zero. For instance, Lanard takes exception with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s repeated assurances that any standard hospital infection control unit could keep a handle on Ebola.If that were true, she says, hospitals wouldn’t be places where tens of thousands of people catch infections every year, including some pretty deadly ones like methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Clostridium difficile.“Unfortunately, we all know how often they violate infection control procedures,” she says.“People love zombie moves. People love monster movies. They know it is fun to think about. Now there is a new disease that is just as exciting, and even scarier.”While the average American may not have all the facts about Ebola, the current outbreak can be a great opportunity to teach them, for instance about infection control and about the need to build up health systems in developing countries, Lanard said.“People love zombie moves. People love monster movies. They know it is fun to think about. Now there is a new disease that is just as exciting, and even scarier,” she said.“People find it fun to be a little bit scared about Ebola, so embrace that fear and use it as a teachable moment. I know people who are worried about Ebola and have made donations to Doctors Without Borders,” she said.“The idea that people are panicking about Ebola is a bunch of baloney.”
First published August 26 2014, 1:44 AM



 

 

 

 




Maggie Fox


 

 

 


                                            Maggie Fox is senior health writer for NBCNews.com and TODAY.com, writing top news on health policy, medical treatments and disease. She's a former managing editor for healthcare and technology at National Journal and global health and science editor for Reuters based in Washington, D.C. and London.She's reported for news agencies, radio, newspapers, magazines and television from across Asia, the Middle East, Africa and Europe covering news ranging from war to politics and, of course, health and science. Her reporting has taken Maggie to Lebanon, Syria and Libya; to China, South Korea, Thailand, the Philippines and Pakistan; to Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia and to Ireland and Northern Ireland and across the rest of Europe.Maggie has won awards from the Society of Business Editors and Writers, the National Immunization Program, the Overseas Press Club and other organizations. She's done fellowships at Harvard Medical School, the National Institutes of Health and the University of Maryland.

... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 
