U.N. says $600 mln needed to tackle Ebola as deaths top 1,900U.N. says $600 mln needed to tackle Ebola as deaths top 1,900
















We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. By continuing to browse our site, you are giving your consent for us to set cookies.
However, if you would like to, you can change your cookie settings at any time. Read our cookie policy.


























Thomson Reuters Foundation








 LOGIN|SUBSCRIBE


						DONATE

					
















News
Trustlaw
Excellence in Journalism
Services
Jobs Market
About Us

View full desktop version
















Ebola patient at Emory University Hospital says he's recovering
Tropical Storm Ana close to hurricane status as it nears Hawaii
EPA approval of Dow herbicide violates law, critics charge
Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold
U.S. hits targets around Kobani for humanitarian purposes -Allen





FIND US ON




























								
									U.S. Supreme Court blocks Texas abortion restrictions

								
							









									
										Yemen's Houthis advance near al Qaeda stronghold

									
								









									
										Ethiopia's fast-growing capital aims to become greener and cleaner

									
								









									
										Freak Nepal blizzards kill at least 20, including hikers, ...

									
								









									
										Syrian Kurds indicating targets as U.S. steps up Kobani strikes

									
								









									
										Economists urge Modi not to squeeze job scheme for rural poor

									
								









									
										Female students beaten, abused by Sudan security-rights group

									
								









									
										UN refugee chief says EU should let in more Syrian refugees

									
								









									
										Sri Lanka bans foreigners from old war zone amid UN probe

									
								









									
										Libyan army, residents battle Islamist militants in Benghazi

									
								









									
										Bomb training vital as Kurds retake Islamic State ground in Iraq

									
								









									
										Can the world produce enough food for 2 bln more people?

									
								









									
										Houthi rebels take over Yemen's Hodeidah port -residents

									
								









									
										Brazil election candidates spar over corruption, nepotism

									
								









									
										Global climate deal should be legally binding in parts: US

									
								









									
										Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding

									
								









									
										Nigerians demand release of 200 kidnapped schoolgirls

									
								









									
										WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa

									
								









									
										Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola

									
								









									
										Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response

									
								









									
										Six months after girls abducted, Nigerians protest 

									
								









									
										Away from Kobani, Syria's other civil war rages on

									
								









									
										I’ve rarely been so terrified 

									
								









									
										WHO may declare Nigeria and Senegal Ebola-free within days

									
								









									
										Investigative journalism's "golden age" faces surveillance threat

									
								









									
										UK firms must report efforts to end slavery in supply chains 

									
								










U.N. says $600 mln needed to tackle Ebola as deaths top 1,900
Source: Reuters - Wed, 3 Sep 2014 23:52 GMT

Author: Reuters













								More on:

																							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    	Health and Disease
							    							    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    															    
						    

A doctor, wearing protective gear, takes part in a drill with a dummy to demonstrate the procedures of handling a patient afflicted with the Ebola virus, in Hong Kong September 2, 2014. REUTERS/Tyrone Siu




















* Close to 400 additional deaths reported since last week
* Guinea finds Ebola in new region
* Nigeria Ebola cases, deaths rise
* U.S. warns outbreak is out of control
* Canada Ebola vaccine shipment stymied by logistics
By Toni Clarke and Saliou Samb
WASHINGTON/CONAKRY, Sept 3 (Reuters) - The United Nations said $600 million in supplies would be needed to fight West Africa's Ebola outbreak, as the death toll from the worst ever epidemic of the virus topped 1,900 and Guinea warned it had penetrated a new part of the country.
The pace of the infection has accelerated, and there were close to 400 deaths in the past week, officials said on Wednesday. It was first detected deep in the forests of southeastern Guinea in March.
The hemorrhagic fever has spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Nigeria, and Senegal, and has killed more people than all outbreaks since Ebola was first uncovered in 1976. There are no approved Ebola vaccines or treatments.
An experimental Ebola vaccine that Canada said it would give to the World Health Organization for use in Africa was as of Wednesday still in the lab that developed it as officials are puzzled over how to transport it.
Ottawa said on Aug. 12 that it would donate between 800 and 1,000 doses of the vaccine, being held at Canada's National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg.
"We are now working with the WHO to address complex regulatory, logistical and ethical issues so that the vaccine can be safely and ethically deployed as rapidly as possible," Health Canada spokesman Sean Upton said in a statement.
"For example, the logistics surrounding the safe delivery of the vaccine are complicated." Upton said one of the challenges was keeping the vaccine cool enough to remain potent.
Human safety trials are due to begin this week on a vaccine from GlaxoSmithKline Plc and later this year on one from NewLink Genetics Corp.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said on Tuesday a federal contract worth up to $42.3 million would help accelerate testing of an experimental Ebola virus treatment being developed by privately held Mapp Biopharmaceutical Inc.
Dr. David Nabarro, senior U.N. Coordinator for Ebola, said the cost of getting the supplies needed by West Africa countries to control the crisis would amount to $600 million. That was higher than an estimate of $490 million by the WHO last week.
Moving workers and supplies around the region has been made difficult by restrictions by some countries on air travel and landing rights as they try to control Ebola's spread.
"We are working intensively with those governments to encourage them to commit to the movement of people and planes and at the same time deal with anxieties about the possibility of infection," Nabarro said.
He said the president of Ghana has agreed to allow an airbridge, or route, through the country to affected regions to move people and supplies.
Ivory Coast, which closed its borders with Liberia and Guinea last month, said on Tuesday it would open humanitarian and economic corridors to its two western neighbors.

EPIDEMIC GAINS, EVACUATION EYED FOR DOCTOR
Dr. Margaret Chan, director-general of the World Health Organization (WHO) told a press conference in Washington, "This Ebola epidemic is the longest, the most severe and the most complex we've ever seen."
Chan said there were more than 3,500 cases across Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
In Liberia, Dr. Rick Sacra, a 51-year-old Boston physician infected with Ebola could be medically evacuated as soon as Thursday, according to staff at the hospital where he worked. Two other Americans recovered from the virus after being taken to the United States for treatment last month.
Amid shortages of equipment and trained staff, more than 120 healthcare workers have died in West Africa in the Ebola outbreak. The Liberian government has begun offering a $1,000 bonus to any healthcare workers who agreed to work in Ebola treatment facilities.
Guinea, the first country to detect the virus, previously said it was containing the outbreak but announced that nine new cases had been found in the prefecture of Kerouane, some 750 km (470 miles) southeast of the capital Conakry.
"There has been a new outbreak in Kerouane, but we have sent in a team to contain it," said Aboubacar Sikidi Diakit&#233;, head of Guinea's Ebola task force.
The latest outbreak started after the arrival of an infected person from neighbouring Liberia, and a total of 18 people were under observation in the region, the health ministry said.
Guinea has recorded 489 deaths and 749 Ebola cases as of Sept. 1, and the epicentre of the outbreak has shifted to neighbouring Liberia and Sierra Leone.
Guinean President Alpha Conde urged healthcare personnel to intensify efforts to avoid new infections. The disease is spread by physical contact with body fluids of infected people or contaminated articles, such as needles.
"Even for a simple malaria (case), you have to protect yourselves before consulting any sick person until the end of this epidemic," Conde said in a televised broadcast. "We had started to succeed, but you dropped the ball and here we go again."
The haemorrhagic fever was gaining in Nigeria where 18 cases, including 7 deaths, have been reported, three in the oil hub of Port Harcourt. The WHO warned that the outbreak there "has the potential to grow larger and spread faster than the one in Lagos" as containment measures had been less effective.
The fifth country infected was Senegal, which confirmed its first case last week: a student who slipped across the border from Guinea and made his way to the coastal capital Dakar.
More than 50 cases of Ebola have been reported in a remote northern jungle region of Democratic Republic of Congo, although these are not linked to the West African cases.
Since Ebola was first detected in Congo in 1976, WHO has reported more than 20 outbreaks in Africa and 1,590 victims.
The WHO warned last week that the Ebola epidemic in West Africa could infect more than 20,000 people and spread to 10 countries.

WORRIES VIRUS COULD MUTATE
Dr. Thomas Kenyon, director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Centre for Global Health, said on Wednesday the outbreak was "spiralling out of control" and warned that the window of opportunity for controlling it was closing.
"Guinea did show that with action, they brought it partially under control. But unfortunately it is back on the increase now," he told a conference call. "It's not under control anywhere."
He warned that the longer the outbreak went uncontained, the greater the possibility the virus could mutate, making it more difficult to contain. While Ebola is transmitted in humans by contact with bodily fluids of the sick, suspected cases of airborne infection have been reported in monkeys in laboratories.
A senior U.S. official rebutted a call from global aid organization Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) for wealthy nations to deploy specialised biological disaster response teams to the region. MSF on Tuesday had warned that 800 more beds for Ebola patients were urgently needed in the Liberian capital Monrovia alone.
"I don't think at this point deploying biological incident response teams is exactly what's needed," said Gayle Smith, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Development and Democracy on the National Security Council.
She said the U.S. government was focusing on rapidly increasing the number of Ebola treatment centers in affected countries, providing protective equipment, and training local staff. "We will see a considerable ramp-up in the coming days and weeks. If we find it is still moving out of control, we will look at other options," Smith told a conference call. (Additional reporting by Toni Clarke in Washington, Daniel Flynn, Bate Felix in Dakar and Rod Nickel in Canada; Writing by Bate Felix, Emma Farge, Toni Reinhold; Editing by Jane Baird)








We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of the Thomson Reuters Foundation. For more information see our Acceptable Use Policy.


Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus




























										
										Ebola outbreak in West Africa











		RELATED CONTENT

	









																	Doctor with Ebola treated patients in Nigeria, left dozens at risk
															




        			
            										J&J Ebola vaccine to start clinical trials in early 2015
						
					
        			











SPOTLIGHT: Ebola outbreak in West Africa





Europe urged to end plight of 600,000 ghost people





FACTBOX: How does one end up stateless in Europe?





SPOTLIGHT: Israeli-Palestinian conflict 





Girls at risk as Bangladesh mulls lowering age of marriage







			TOPICAL CONTENT

		









		                			
			                														Sierra Leone residents clash with police over Ebola response
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Ebola researcher looks to the internet for funding
										
									
								






		                			
			                														Obama: World is not doing enough to contain Ebola
										
									
								






		                			
			                														WHO says Ebola epidemic still spreading in West Africa
										
									
								








		LATEST SLIDESHOW

	








5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls




















Nearly one in five adolescent girls is out of school. That’s 65 mln girls worldwide.
Here are 5 facts you need to know about adolescent girls







					FEATURED JOBS

				







	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Spain, France and North Africa

	                


						
												
												
												
												
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 25 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Salary: TBD  | Location:  Spain

					




	                	
	                	Climate Resilience Editor/Project Manager

	                


						
												
												
												
												
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 01 November 2014  | Job type: Contract  | Salary: TBD

					




	                	
	                	Programme Manager, Latin America 

	                


						
												
												
												
						
																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																
							
						
						Organisation: Thomson Reuters Foundation  | Deadline: 31 October 2014  | Job type: Permanent  | Location:  Argentina

					


































Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy


Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility



RSS
Newsletters
Turn off mobile site switching







Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation





Terms and Conditions
Privacy and Cookies
Acceptable Use Policy
Contact Us
Trust Principles
Accessibility










View full desktop version


Thomson Reuters Foundation is a charity registered in England and Wales (registration number: 1082139)
Copyright © 2014 Thomson Reuters Foundation
























