Ebola Virologist: fight against Ebola outbreaks in Sierra Leone and Liberia is already lost – 5 million people could die  | The Extinction Protocol Ebola Virologist: fight against Ebola outbreaks in Sierra Leone and Liberia is already lost – 5 million people could die  | The Extinction Protocol 






The Extinction Protocol 


Geologic and Earthchange News events





Skip to content
HomeBooks of ScienceLoungeContactThe Extinction Protocol Radio







← Ominous: Ebola cases double in DR Congo – 35 dead, nearly 400 people may be infected
Ebola in the air? A nightmare that could happen – ‘would be one of the most devastating things to ever hit the world’ →


Ebola Virologist: fight against Ebola outbreaks in Sierra Leone and Liberia is already lost – 5 million people could die

Posted on September 12, 2014 by The Extinction Protocol  


September 2014 – AFRICA – The killer virus is spreading like wildfire, Liberia’s defense minister said on Tuesday he pleaded for UN assistance. A German Ebola expert tells DW the virus must “burn itself out” in that part of the world. His statement might alarm many people. But Jonas Schmidt-Chanasit of the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine in Hamburg told DW that he and his colleagues are losing hope for Sierra Leone and Liberia, two of the countries worst hit by the recent Ebola epidemic. “The right time to get this epidemic under control in these countries has been missed,” he said. That time was May and June. “Now it is too late.” Schmidt-Chanasit expects the virus will “burn itself out” in this part of the world. With other words: It will more or less infect everybody and half of the population – in total about five million people – could die. Stop the virus from spilling over to other countries. Schmidt-Chanasit knows that it is a hard thing to say. He stresses that he doesn’t want international help to stop. Quite the contrary: He demands “massive help.” For Sierra Leone and Liberia, though, he thinks “it is far from reality to bring enough help there to get a grip on the epidemic.” According to the virologist, the most important thing to do now is to prevent the virus from spreading to other countries, “and to help where it is still possible, in Nigeria and Senegal for example.” Moreover, much more money has to be put into evaluating suitable vaccines, he added.
In the headquarters of Welthungerhilfe, a German non-governmental aid organization that is engaged in helping with the Ebola epidemic, Schmidt-Chanasit’s statement causes much contempt. Such declarations “are not very constructive,” a spokeswoman said. Jochen Moninger, Sierra Leone based coordinator of Welthungerhilfe, told DW, Schmidt-Chanasit’s statement is “dangerous and moreover, not correct.” Moninger has been living in Sierra Leone for four years and has experienced the Ebola outbreak there from the beginning. “The measures are beginning to show progress,” he says. “The problem is solvable – the disease can be stemmed. If I had lost hope completely, I would pack my things and take my family out of here,” Moninger adds. Instead, he and his family will stay. In Sierra Leone, the government has ordered a quarantine of 21 days for every household in which an Ebola case occurred. Soldiers and police are guarding these houses preventing anyone who has come into contact with an Ebola patient from leaving. According to Moninger, that is exactly the right thing to do: isolating sick people – should it be necessary, even with military force.
She admits, though, that the situation especially in Liberia is “very intense.” The government is completely outstripped and as soon as a new Ebola treatment center has opened, it is overflowed by patients, she says, adding that Liberia has the highest number of cases and deaths in West Africa with a 60 percent case-fatality rate. The situation is getting worse after 80 health workers, doctors and nurses, have died after contracting the disease. The WHO even expects thousands of new cases of Ebola in Liberia over the next few weeks. –DW

“The number of new cases is increasing exponentially,” the WHO said, calling the situation a “dire emergency with … unprecedented dimensions of human suffering.” -CNN



About these ads




ShareEmailShare on Tumblr

Related
 

												This entry was posted in Black Swan Event, Catastrophic Insurance losses mount, Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Disease outbreak, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Ecology overturn, Environmental Threat, Famine Threat, High-risk potential hazard zone, Human behavioral change after disaster, Infrastructure collapse, New virus reported, Pestilence Watch, Potential Earthchange hotspot, Prophecies referenced, Quarantine, Time - Event Acceleration. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Ominous: Ebola cases double in DR Congo – 35 dead, nearly 400 people may be infected
Ebola in the air? A nightmare that could happen – ‘would be one of the most devastating things to ever hit the world’ →


22 Responses to Ebola Virologist: fight against Ebola outbreaks in Sierra Leone and Liberia is already lost – 5 million people could die




 Lorra B. says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 1:39 am 
To say this is heartbreaking is an understatement…
LikeLiked by 1 person


Reply 





 John says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 1:58 am 
I don’t think this virus will simply burn out like a forest fire as the German doctor suggests.  This is an environment of open borders, international travel, ignorance, and a collapsed health care infrastructure.  Just like a forest fire, this virus will easily jump over obstacles and spread into Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, and the entire middle east.  That is the only direction it can go, except maybe toward South Africa.  If it ever spreads to Egypt, it will even seep into closely guarded Israel.  This is science fiction becoming reality.
From the mideast, it could spread to Europe, India, China, Pakistan and then into Russia.  Then it will be just a matter of time and it will cross the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean to North and South America.
LikeLiked by 2 people


Reply 





 Christopher says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 3:47 am 
This may change everything. We may look at life before this, and after.(Black Death) children will likely read about in their history books. Hopefully we won’t see this magnitude!
LikeLike


Reply 





 George says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 8:55 am 
“We don’t know what to do”. The understatement of the year.
LikeLike


Reply 





 ANTHONY HOLMES says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 11:17 am 
Just a thought , ebola is spread by touch right , the flies seen walking on the infected guy must be picking the virus up from his skin and feces , they fly off and land on another person – their virus infected feet touch the skin and the virus burrows down through the pores – and a new infection starts . flies are everywhere and they make a beeline for poop – which ebola victims produce in large quantities , has no one thought that ebola could after all be airborne ?
LikeLiked by 2 people


Reply 





 davidh7426 says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 2:49 pm 
Don’t forget mosquitoes, if they can be used as a transmission vector, then it’ll be like injecting the blood from an Ebola carrier directly into your body.
LikeLiked by 1 person


Reply 







 amy adams says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 1:19 pm 
Anthony Holmes
It would seem logical that it would spread in just such a way even the mice , fleas , anything that crawled or landed in the feces, blood or urine ,  although I have not heard even one person besides you say so , one would assume it to be true scary isn’t it .
LikeLike


Reply 





 Andre says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 4:39 pm 
Copper, Gold, Platinum and Iron Ore are the goal. Soros is working for Rothschild interests to sew up the resources of West Africa.  The people are not needed, since Western engineers and Asian technicians will be brought in to run the open pit mines.
LikeLiked by 1 person


Reply 





 stevenj says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 6:02 pm 
Ebola will hit every continent within 12 to 18 months…. Our international mobility will be our downfall. Once it’s all said and done, the world’s population will be culled by at least 25 to 40 percent, and that may be a conservative estimate.  Even if a vaccine is found, it will be too little too late.  Science fiction has become fact…
LikeLike


Reply 





 Ken McClellan says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 11:17 pm 
Five million is a conservative’s figure.  Go to your August 21st chart and update it.  This thing jumped 3 orders of magnitude in the first six months.  What are we doing differently now than before?  We still let them on airplanes.  We still let them go home.  We don’t burn the bodies.  We don’t eradicate the animals gnawing on them.  This is the Cull the elites have long wanted.  Time to relearn the poem “Ring around the rosies.”
LikeLike


Reply 





 DJ says: 

				September 12, 2014 at 11:29 pm 
Chilling… he’s not the only expert giving their honest opinion.
An epidemiologist from London says we “can’t rule out some sort of nightmare doomsday scenario.”…
… based on data from recent weeks, researchers estimate each case in the community could be giving rise to about 1.5 more cases. “That means each case that is turned away generates more than one new case,” said Edmunds. And then you’re looking at an ongoing epidemic that could permeate right through society unless we do something to stop it right now.” 
‘The Terrifying Mathematics of Ebola’
Ebola treatment facilities in Monrovia, the Liberian capital, are now so overwhelmed they are turning away up to 30 infected people every day according the medical charity Medecins sans Frontieres.
Given the rate at which the virus is spreading, it says the virus will soon be having an “apocalyptic” impact on the country and its neighbours unless there is a dramatic increase in international assistance.
“It could get very bad indeed,” said Prof John Edmunds, an epidemiologist at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. ”And I mean you can’t rule out some sort of nightmare doomsday scenario.”
“But the quicker we react and put interventions in place, the better chance we’ve got of avoiding something really, really serious.”
The leading epidemiologist is studying the spread of the virus in Monrovia, where the outbreak is now most intense. He has told Channel 4 News that based on the current rate of spread and lack of power to control it, it has the potential to infect the majority of the population of the country.
Getting a real handle on how fast the virus us spreading is becoming impossible. Official statistics are largely based on admissions and deaths in Ebola treatment facilities, from which people are now being turned away.
But based on data from recent weeks, researchers estimate each case in the community could be giving rise to about 1.5 more cases. “That means each case that is turned away generates more than one new case,” said Edmunds. And then you’re looking at an ongoing epidemic that could permeate right through society unless we do something to stop it right now.”
“The doubling time of this epidemic is about two weeks, so if we are overwhelmed with our resources right now, it’s going to be twice as bad in two weeks’ time.”
See more at: http://blogs.channel4.com/tom-clarke-on-science/terrifying-mathematics-ebola/1329
LikeLike


Reply 





 Anni Mock says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 1:12 am 
Ezekiel 5:12 King James Version (KJV)
A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third part into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them.
LikeLiked by 1 person


Reply 





 stevenj says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 2:02 pm 
Pestilence (Ebola), Famine (reduced population in affected areas = less to work the fields), Wars (we’re on the brink right now)… Couple that with the significant rise in volcanic and tectonic activity worldwide – Connect the dots…  We are seeing prophecy unfold before our eyes… Of course, many will choose to ignore what they see, and will be lost. But that is foretold as well.
LikeLike


Reply 







 sunlinepr says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 4:12 am 
Global Economies will perish……Once all comercial activities go down hill in Ebola infected  countries due to isolation, hunger, the lack of basic resources needed for normal every day will move the people into panic.
Imagine that you are part of a wealthy family in one of those countries. You would be right now preparing your departure with all your loved ones. So…
We will hear news about how the wealthy ones will use their influences to find their way to escape the country, taking the virus with it.
Like the WHO sais and many other experts…..This virus is already unstopable. The ones that have the resources to escape will look for developed societies in order to obtain expected cures. So the US, England, Brazil, China, Russia, Europe, ANY COUNTRY will be their target. This is serious… and is a situation that we all will have to deal and prepare for in the next year….
LikeLike


Reply 





 Energist says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 6:55 am 
It is sad watching this also because it doesn’t seem like the true danger of the virus is resonating with the populations the way it should.  Why is that woman sitting there with her bare feet, not taking care of her self so that she isn’t the next to contract the virus.  There are too many of these people who are relying on being saved instead of doing what they are able to, to try and save themselves.  A lot of these people do not know how to take care of themselves, relying on their governmental aid and looking beyond for aid as well.  This is a sadness beyond belief and there is not even a clean up crew anywhere.  There are the sprayers, but what about the sanitization of everything along with the spraying.  People should try to keep everything in a sanitary order and keep clean, not roll around on the dirty ground.  I guess this is also the OCD popping out of me while watching these videos.  
This is so sad and I do feel like it’s a part of an earth cleanse that’s taking place everywhere in the world with alarming weather conditions, sickness and death of many animals and new human sicknesses that are popping up with new strains, like this one.  Just like our body wants to cleanse itself when it’s sick and needs renewal and doctors try and aid the body toward better health.  The earth is cleansing herself, screaming for renewal and it’s doing it’s part with the aid of  the Universal Energies that be.  
Earth in general is going through a master cleanse in more ways than one and it’s sad to watch the unfolding of it all, but I understand.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Bone Idle says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 1:22 pm 
A couple of days ago a WHO agency set up a 260 bed emergency response centre in Monrovia. The day they opened it over 1000 unreported cases turned up to try and occupy the available beds. Obviously the majority were turned away – these cases still remain unreported. A the days wore on there were long queues of more new unreported patients lined up outside.
The unreported cases are obviously a nightmarish number to the staff on the ground.
Every day the figure of official cases of infections and deaths is far outstripped by the unreported.
LikeLiked by 1 person


Reply 





 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 11:22 pm 
Exactly, this has already morphed into an extinction threat…
How much more will it take for people to wake up?
LikeLiked by 2 people


Reply 





 davidh7426 says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 11:31 pm 
At a guess… For the world they know to become a morgue, where those they know, are dead, dying, or running for the proverbial hills in a desperate bid to hide from the contagion.
Most won’t wake up, they’ll just die where they stand, waiting for the MAN to come and save them, a somewhat vain hope at best.
LikeLike








 The Extinction Protocol says: 

				September 14, 2014 at 12:03 am 
When the world’s population is reduced to less than a billion – reality will set in.
LikeLike












 Broer says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 7:22 pm 
This is indeed a potential global catastrophe.
Just like the swine flu a hundred years ago.
The swine flu killed over ten million.
The difference here is that there was basically no international passenger air traffic a hundred years ago.
Now this epidemic can be here in twelve hours.
There are between 3000 and 5000 visitors from Nigeria on non stop flights from Nigeria weekly.
Nigeria is an infected country.
It’s almost as if the global elite want a pandemic.
But of course a massive population reduction is their stated goal.
Always remember the georgia guide stones.
All direct international flights to the USA and European countries need to stop from infected countries.
Maybe the president can miss a golf game to sign an executive order to stop the air traffic.
Just a thought.
The  over all health of most Africans is terrible over fifty percent in some areas have aids.
There are specific things you can do to strengthen your immune system
Vit c.  3000mg
Immune support.  Four a day
Viagrahics. Four a day
Potassium iodide. 12 mg daily
D3 5000iu daily
I have written am entire article on building the immune system
Not everyone who is exposed to Ebola gets Ebola.
Not everyone who gets Ebola dies from Ebola
By the way pray that this mess doesn’t  go global.
One final thing fear not for fear is the mind and spirit killer.
Healthmasters.com
Ted Broer
LikeLike


Reply 





 niebo says: 

				September 13, 2014 at 7:55 pm 
“. . . .He pleaded for UN assistance.”
That the UN is not already on site (with its billions of dollars worth of assets) is an indictment against everything that the organization is, was, or ever claimed to be. Or maybe the good doctor is right: “It will more or less infect everybody. . . .” Because, apparently, that is what the UN wants.
The WHO is part of the UN, by the way, just so everybody knows that they are NOT really there to help, just to make calls for others to help.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Health_Organization
LikeLike


Reply 





 hu6098 says: 

				September 14, 2014 at 3:21 pm 
Or maybe we’re all just getting sucked in to another corporate fear agenda:
http://jonrappoport.wordpress.com/2014/09/13/ebola-the-covert-op-of-modern-medicine/
LikeLike


Reply 




All comments are moderated. We reserve the right not to post any comment deemed defamatory, inappropriate, or spam. Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list


Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola


Health officials warn new Ebola cases could soon reach 10,000 a week


Ebola death toll rises to 4,447 – mortality rate for virus peaks at 70%


7.3 magnitude earthquake strikes off coast of El Salvador killing 1


Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
* Publisher Coupon Discount

1 Submit story

11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Animal Extinction

Apostasy

Avalanche

Black hole or supernova

Black Swan Event

Blizzard

Breaking News Event

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Cosmic and Gamma Ray emissions

Cracks

Crowd Control technology

Cryometeor

Cyber Warfare

Cyclone or Hurricane

Dark Ages

Deluge from torrential rains

Derecho storm

Derecho storm system

Desertification

Disappearing Lakes

Disease outbreak

Dormant fault activation

Dream Portal TEP

Drought

Drumbeat of War

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earth's core dynamics

Earthquake Omens?

Eclipse

Ecology overturn

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Ecoystem crisis due to population boom

Editor's note to readers – policy

Electric power disruption & grid failure

Electronic Surveillence

Emerging disease threat

Environmental Threat

Erratic Jet Stream

Ethnic or religious strife

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extinction Threat

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Financial System Collapse

Fireballs

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Flooding

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Fracking quake suspected

Frost Quakes

Fungus outbreak

Future coding

Futuristic tech trends

Gale-force winds and gusts

Geomagnetic Storm Alert

Geyser eruption

Glacial fracture

Global Debt Bomb

Hailstorm

Harmonic tremor swarm

Hazardous chemical exposure

Health guideliness issued

Heatwave

High-risk potential hazard zone

Hum noise

Human behavioral change after disaster

Ice Storm

Infrastructure collapse

Invasive species threat

Land fissures

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lava flow

Lightning storm

Limnic overturn

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Lurid acts of violence increasing

Magma Plume activity

Magnetic pole migration

Marine animal strandings

Mass animal deaths

Meteor or Asteroid

Monthly lead post

Mud volcano

Mystery Boom & Shaking

Natural gas explosion

New land rises from sea

New virus reported

New volcanic activity

New weapons of war

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Nuclear plant crisis

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary discovery

Planetary Tremor Event

Polar Vortex

Poleshift risks

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Quarantine

Rare snowfall

Reality Check

Record Cold temperatures

Record high temperatures

Record rainfall

Record snowfall

Red Tide

Resource war

Rising tension between nations

Rumors of War

Scientific blunders

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

sinkholes

Social unrest

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Strange unexplained noises

Subglacial flood event

Submarine volcanic eruption

Submarine Volcano

Supermoon

Tectonic plate movement

Time – Event Acceleration

Tornado Outbreak

Unknown phenomena in the sky

Unprecedented Flooding

Unseasonable Weather Event

Unsolved Mystery

Unusual hail storm

Unusual solar behavior

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Ash

Volcanic Eruption

Volcanic gas emissions

Volcano unrest

Volcano Watch

Water Crisis – Conflict

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,363 other followers







 



EP: Live Twitter Feed

				Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list  wp.me/p1eYXc-amj -The Extinction Protocol...				4 hours ago


				M5.1  - 124km NNE of Vik, Iceland 2014-10-15 11:16:33 UTC (via @usgs)  earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/ev… -The Extinction Protocol...				8 hours ago


				Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola  wp.me/p1eYXc-amb -The Extinction Protocol...				9 hours ago

Books by the Author

Books by the Author


News website

Utopia the collapse


Youtube Channel

The Extinction Protocol Radio






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?





 








 




 




					The Extinction Protocol 				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
			


















































Follow

Follow “The Extinction Protocol ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 11,363 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com







Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







 



