
      Liberia troops fire on protesters as West Africa's Ebola toll hits 1,350
| Reuters


      Liberia troops fire on protesters as West Africa's Ebola toll hits 1,350
| Reuters






 





 








Edition:
U.S.


Africa
Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom


















Home

Business



Business Home
Economy
Legal
Deals
Business Video
Aerospace & Defense
Financial Institutions 
Autos
Reuters Summits




Markets



Markets Home
U.S. Markets
European Markets
Asian Markets
Global Market Data
Indices
Stocks
Bonds
Currencies
Comm & Energy
Futures
Funds
peHUB
Earnings
Dividends




World



World Home
U.S.
Special Reports
Reuters Investigates
Euro Zone
Middle East
China
Japan
Mexico
Brazil
Africa
Russia
India Insight
World Video




Politics



Politics Home
Supreme Court
Politics Video




Tech



Technology Home
MediaFile
Science
Tech Video
Top 100 Global Innovators




Opinion



Opinion Home
Ian Bremmer
Steven Brill
Hugo Dixon
Alison Frankel
Jim Gaines
Edward Hadas
Anatole Kaletsky
Mark Leonard
John Lloyd
David Rohde
Reihan Salam
Jack Shafer
Nicholas Wapshott
The Great Debate
Data Dive
Morning Bid




Breakingviews



Equities
Credit
Private Equity
M&A
Macro & Markets
Politics
Breakingviews Video




Money



Money Home
Lipper Awards
Global Investing
Unstructured Finance
Linda Stern
Mark Miller
John Wasik
James Saft
Analyst Research
Alerts
Watchlist
Portfolio
Stock Screener
Fund Screener
Personal Finance Video




Life



Health
Sports
World Cup
Arts
Entertainment
Oddly Enough
Faithworld
Lifestyle Video




Pictures



Pictures Home
Reuters Photographers
Full Focus




Video










































Article
Comments (4)
























Liberia troops fire on protesters as West Africa's Ebola toll hits 1,350

By Clair MacDougall and James Harding Giahyue

MONROVIA  
Wed Aug 27, 2014 7:29am EDT



4 Comments




Tweet





Share this

Email
Print













Windows on EbolaIsolated patients and staff seen through hospital windows in Spain.  Slideshow 


Related Topics


Health »






MONROVIA (Reuters) - Security forces in the Liberian capital fired live rounds and tear gas on Wednesday to disperse a stone-throwing crowd trying to break an Ebola quarantine imposed on their neighborhood, as the death toll from the epidemic in West Africa hit 1,350.
In the sprawling oceanfront West Point neighborhood of Monrovia, at least four people were injured in clashes with security forces, witnesses said. It was unclear whether anyone was wounded by the gunfire, though a Reuters photographer saw a young boy with his leg largely severed just above the ankle. Liberian authorities introduced a nationwide curfew on Tuesday and put the West Point neighborhood under quarantine to curb the spread of the disease."The soldiers are using live rounds," said army spokesman Dessaline Allison, adding: "The soldiers applied the rules of engagement. They did not fire on peaceful citizens. There will be medical reports if (an injury) was from bullet wounds."The World Health Organization said that the countries hit by the worst ever outbreak of the deadly virus were beginning to suffer shortages of fuel, food and basic supplies after shipping companies and airlines suspended services to the region.The epidemic of the hemorrhagic fever, which can kill up to 90 percent of those it infects, is ravaging the three small West African states of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. It also has a toehold in Nigeria, Africa's biggest economy and most populous country.Liberia - where the death toll is rising fastest - said its Ministry of Health warehouse had run out of rubber boots and bottles of hand sanitizer, essential for preventing the spread of the disease.Still struggling to recover from a devastating 1989-2003 civil war, Liberia recorded 95 deaths in the two days to Aug. 18, the World Health Organization said. Since it was discovered in remote southeastern Guinea in March, the overall death toll from the outbreak has reached 1,350 from a total of 2,473 cases.WEST POINT CLASHESWitnesses said the clashes in West Point started after security forces early on Wednesday blocked roads to the neighborhood with tables, chairs and barbed wire. Security forces also came in to escort the local commissioner out of the neighborhood, they said.Attempts to isolate the worst affected areas of the country and neighboring Sierra Leone have raised fears of unrest in one of the world's poorest regions should communities start to run low on food and medical supplies."I don't have any food and we're scared," said Alpha Barry, a resident of West Point who said he came from Guinea and has four children under age 13.In an effort to calm tensions, authorities on Wednesday started delivering tonnes of rice, oil and essential foodstuffs to West Point, residents and a government official said.The World Food Program has begun emergency food shipments to quarantined zones where a million people may be at risk of shortages. The WHO has appealed to companies and international organizations to continue providing supplies and services to countries at risk, saying there was a low risk of contagion.FEAR FACTOR HIGHThe Ebola outbreak is putting off thousands of tourists who had planned trips to Africa this year, especially Asians, including to destinations thousands of miles from the nearest infected community such as Kenya and South Africa.Containing the outbreak requires large numbers of specialist staff to map the epidemic, track people who have had contact with sufferers, and to work in isolation and treatment centers. The WHO has pledged to massively scale up the international response, but so far there has been only a trickle of additional foreign healthcare workers to affected nations. "The fear factor is high," Francis Kasolo, the coordinator of a WHO sub-regional Ebola outbreak coordination center told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "We try and try. It is an ongoing process. The offer is not large. And they have to be the right profile of person."West Point residents said they were given no warning of the blockade, which prevented them from getting to work or buying food. Many people in impoverished parts of Monrovia buy food to eat each day rather than stocking it.Residents also said the closure immediately caused prices of basic goods, including drinking water sold in sachets, to soar."We just saw it (the blockade) this morning. We came out and we couldn't go anywhere. I haven't heard from anybody in authority what happened," Barry, 45, who works as a money changer, told Reuters.The task authorities face is made harder by misinformation. One West Point resident told Reuters the government had sealed off the neighborhood in order to bring the disease in.A crowd at West Point looted a temporary holding center for suspected Ebola cases at the weekend, 17 of whom fled. All 17 were now accounted for and being treated, and the government has abandoned plans for the center due to fierce resistance.Meanwhile, Democratic Republic of Congo has sent its health minister and a team of experts to the remote Equateur province after several people died there from a disease with Ebola-like symptoms, a local official and a professor said.It was not immediately clear if there was any connection with Ebola.(This version of the story corrects an August 20 story to make clear in headline, first paragraph it was soldiers not police who opened fire) (Additional reporting by Daniel Flynn and Emma Farge in Dakar, Alphonso Toweh in Washington, writing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg; editing by Daniel Flynn, G Crosse and Robin Pomeroy)
FILED UNDER: 
Health







Tweet this


Link this

Share this

Digg this

Email
Print
Reprints























We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/

Comments (4)


AngelMichael wrote:
        
so the Shriners cannot cure Ebola after all?

Aug 27, 2014 1:03pm EDT  --  Report as abuse



pkinslow wrote:
        
What’s with the reprinting of these old stories that include the old death toll numbers? This happened last week.

Aug 27, 2014 1:39pm EDT  --  Report as abuse



freethinkerlenr wrote:
        
Instead of posting an old piece, with uninteresting caveats hidden at the end of the piece, why find the important info to disseminate?
What is really the situation with new cases and the death toll? WHO seem to have abandoned the notion of informing via their webpage. 
From what CDCs chief, Dr. Tom Frieden, is saying, the death toll is “far larger than has been recorded”. I can understand the will not to unduly worry people, but lets face it – we need to know. This is important stuff and the world need to have accurate assessments and numbers, also the average Joe or Jane Public on the street.

Aug 27, 2014 3:58pm EDT  --  Report as abuse

This discussion is now closed. We welcome comments on our articles for a limited period after their publication.

See All Comments »














					Read



New Texas nurse with Ebola had fever on airliner
| 


3:34pm EDT 
Lockheed says makes breakthrough on fusion energy project

1:09pm EDT 
U.S.-led air strikes intensify as Syria conflict destabilizes Turkey
| 


3:47pm EDT 
Hong Kong tycoon calls for protests to end after tension over police beating
| 


9:52am EDT 
Major indexes down more than one percent but off day's lows

3:20pm EDT 


















 Follow Reuters  Facebook Twitter RSS YouTube  












































 



 
 

 
 

 







  


Edition:
U.S.


Arabic
Argentina
Brazil
Canada
China
France
Germany
India
Italy
Japan
Latin America
Mexico
Russia
Spain
United Kingdom




Back to top














Reuters.com

Business
Markets
World
Politics
Technology
Opinion
Money
Pictures
Videos
Site Index

More from Reuters

Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Delivery Options
Support & Contact

Support
Corrections


Connect with Reuters

Twitter  
Facebook  
LinkedIn  
RSS  
Podcast  
Newsletters  
Mobile

About

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Advertise With Us
AdChoices
Copyright



 



Our Flagship financial information platform incorporating Reuters Insider



An ultra-low latency infrastructure for electronic trading and data distribution



A connected approach to governance, risk and compliance



Our next generation legal research platform



Our global tax workstation



Thomsonreuters.com
About Thomson Reuters
Investor Relations
Careers
Contact Us





Thomson Reuters is the world's largest international multimedia news agency, providing investing news, world news, business news, technology news, headline news, small business news, news alerts, personal finance, stock market, and mutual funds information available on Reuters.com, video, mobile, and interactive television platforms. Thomson Reuters journalists are subject to an Editorial Handbook which requires fair presentation and disclosure of relevant interests.
NYSE and AMEX quotes delayed by at least 20 minutes. Nasdaq delayed by at least 15 minutes. For a complete list of exchanges and delays, please click here.





























