BBC News - Can US 'secret serum' stop Ebola outbreak?BBC News - Can US 'secret serum' stop Ebola outbreak?












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




US & Canada







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video



















 
        Media playback is unsupported on your device           Can US 'secret serum' stop Ebola outbreak? 9 August 2014 Last updated at 01:55 BST   On Friday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the West African outbreak of Ebola an "international emergency".In the US, two Americans who contracted the virus are being treated with a secret serum, and are understood to be recovering in Atlanta. The serum is controversial because it has not been tested on humans before - and because it is not being given to others in Africa who are suffering from the virus. Alastair Leithead visited San Diego where the serum was developed and spoke with researchers working on finding a cure.
 Read more   WHO: Ebola 'an international emergency'     Ebola outbreak: Nigeria declares national emergency     Why Ebola is so dangerous          


        Share this story        About sharing




Email




Facebook




Twitter




             Related   Most watched   Top stories      Related video / audio       video 2:15   WHO: 'Ebola spread can be stopped' 8 August 2014
       video 0:16   Ebola 'emergency' in 15 seconds 8 August 2014
       video 3:07   'We can stop Ebola outbreak' 7 August 2014
       video 2:34   Priest evacuated over Ebola outbreak 7 August 2014
       video 1:35   An Ebola isolation unit in London 7 August 2014
       video 2:15   NY's 'Little Liberia' Ebola fears 7 August 2014
       Most watched       Top stories       World       UK       Business       Politics       Health       Science &amp Environment       Technology       Entertainment         







Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    








