ONS: 26 September 2014 | The Rendon GroupONS: 26 September 2014 | The Rendon Group



 The Rendon Group
Strategic communications. Edge thinking.Information as an Element of Power.

Home
About
Services
Insights
Contract Vehicles
Join TRG









ONS: 26 September 2014
by TRG Alerts Admin on September 26, 2014


KEY STORYLINES

AFRICA: The WHO reported that thousands of experimental Ebola vaccine doses from British GSK and US NewLink should be ready for use by early 2015.
AMERICAS: A Mexican army officer and seven soldiers were detained in connection with the killing of 22 people in the rural south of the country.
ASIA: Indonesian President-elect Joko Widodo accused his opponents of stealing “people’s political rights” after parliament voted to scrap direct elections of local officials.
EUROPE: Russia and Ukraine held EU-brokered talks on their gas dispute.
MIDDLE EAST: The head of Interpol said the organization has vastly expanded its database of foreign fighters traveling to join extremists in Iraq and Syria.
TECHNOLOGY: US semi-conductor maker Intel said it will invest USD1.5 billion in two Chinese cell phone part companies.

 
TOP STORY

Syria and Iraq: British parliament to vote on Iraq involvement as US-led oilfield strikes continue.

British PM Cameron urged Parliament to approve plans to join the American-led air campaign against militants of the Islamic State in Iraq.
Government leaders said that Britain will not join the US in attacking targets in Syria and will not commit ground forces.
The US-led alliance launched new air strikes against IS in the oil-rich eastern province of Deir Ezzor, and northeastern Hasakeh.
US President Obama and Turkish President Erdogan agreed to consult more closely on the Islamic State threat.
The emir of Qatar al-Thani denied accusations that his country funds extremist groups in Syria, while stressing the Gulf state’s commitment to the US-led campaign against IS.
Coverage: AFP, AFP-2, AFP-3, BBC, NYT, WSJ


 
AFRICA

Region: The WHO reported that thousands of experimental Ebola vaccine doses from British GSK and US NewLink should be ready for use by early 2015. (AFP)
Gambia: President Jammeh demanded a UN investigation into the “manmade sinking, capsizing” of boats carrying migrants to Europe. (Reuters)
Nigeria: The government said that Boko Haram terrorists who had surrendered themselves would be reintegrated into society. (Xinhua)
Zambia: VP Scott denied reports that President Sata has died while attending the UNGA in the US. (Xinhua)

 
AMERICAS

Colombia: The army killed three FARC rebels in the country’s southwestern Putumayo department. (Xinhua)
Cuba: The government said it will send nearly 300 more doctors and nurses to west Africa to help fight the Ebola epidemic. (AFP)
Mexico: An army officer and seven soldiers were detained in connection with the killing of 22 people in the rural south of the country. (AP)
United States: The AP reported that DHS privately acknowledged that 70 percent of released immigrant families failed to report back to immigration authorities as ordered. (AP)

 
ASIA

Afghanistan: An official reported that Taliban insurgents beheaded 12 civilians and torched some 60 homes in an assault on security forces in eastern Ghazni province. (AP)
India: A New York court ordered PM Modi to answer allegations of “attempted genocide” over deadly anti-Muslim riots in 2002, as he began his first US visit. (AFP)
Indonesia: President-elect Joko Widodo accused his opponents of stealing “people’s political rights” after parliament voted to scrap direct elections of local officials. (AFP)
Pakistan: The military conducted a successful test fire of a short range surface-to-surface Hatf IX (NASR) missile. (Xinhua)
China: The government said that forty “rioters” were killed in the Xinjiang region following a series of explosions on 21SEP. (AFP)

 
EUROPE

Region: Russia and Ukraine held EU-brokered talks on their gas dispute. (AP)
Cyprus: Hundreds of mostly Syrian refugees rescued by a cruise liner in the Mediterranean agreed to disembark after a standoff triggered by their demand to go to Italy. (AFP)
Spain: Spanish and Moroccan police arrested nine suspected members of a militant cell with alleged ties to Islamic State in the country’s northern African enclaves. (WSJ)
United Kingdom: Police arrested two more suspects in an investigation into “Islamist-related terrorism”, a day after nine were detained. (AFP)

 
MIDDLE EAST

Region: The UN reported that the number of asylum-seekers in industrialized countries has risen by nearly a quarter, driven by the wars in Syria and Iraq. (AFP)
Region: The head of Interpol said the organization has vastly expanded its database of foreign fighters traveling to join extremists in Iraq and Syria. (AP)
Iran: Diplomats said the US is considering softening demands that the country gut its uranium enrichment program in favor of letting Tehran keep nearly half of it intact. (AP)

 
TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS

Technology: US semi-conductor maker Intel said it will invest USD1.5 billion in two Chinese cell phone part companies. (AFP)

 
WORLD

Cyclones: Tropical Storm 17W (Kammuri)

Loction: 302 NM ESE of Iwo To
Movement: NW at 7 mph
Winds: 52 mph
Map

Hurricanes: Tropical Storm Rachel

Location: 390 miles SSW of Baja California
Movement: WNW at 14 mph
Winds: 50 mph
Map

Earthquakes: 95km WNW of Willow, Alaska

Magnitude: 6.2
Depth: 102.8 km
Map

Volcanoes: Nothing to report.
Global Disease Outbreaks:

Ebola Virus Disease (EVD)

Cases: 4784 (Guinea, Mali, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria, DR Congo)
Deaths: 2400 (Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone)
Sourcing: WHO, WHO-2

Novel Coronavirus (MERS-CoV, SARS-related)

Cases as of 24JUL: 837 (Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Italy, Iran, France, Germany, Jordan, Oman, Qatar, UAE, United Kingdom, Egypt, US, Yemen)
Deaths as of 24JUL: 291 (Saudi Arabia, France, Qatar, United Kingdom, UAE, Oman)
Sourcing: WHO, WHO-2



 
TOMORROW’S OUTLOOK (27SEP)

Global: Anniversary of foundation of Google – 1998
Egypt: Egyptian court will deliver its verdict in the murder trial of Hosni Mubarak

 
END
 
  Tags: Africa China Colombia Communications Cuba earthquake Ebola Egypt Egyptian Election EU Europe FARC Hosni Mubarak India Iran Iraq Islamic State Liberia Mexico Middle East Mubarak rebels Russia Spain Tehran Tunisia UAE Ukraine UN United States virus Yemen 
 



Comments on this entry are closed.



← Previous Entry
Next Entry →
 




Thought Leadership

World Cup
Ukraine vs. the Russian Media
From the CEO: Personalized and Personal Democracy
Visualizing Tension in the South China Sea
Egypt’s Narrative Evolution








Overnight News Summaries

ONS: 15 October 014
ONS: 14 October 2014
ONS: 13 October 2014
ONS: 12 October 2014
ONS: 11 October 2014











From Our ClientsEnjoyed your product throughout the three years I was subscribed.16MAY14
Connect With Us Connect with us on any of our social channels and join the conversation about communication.










Home
About
Services
Insights
Contract Vehicles
Join TRG

Copyright © 2014 . All rights reserved. 







