Ebola continues to spread, Liberia quarantines entire slum and begins deadly crackdown on protestors - NaturalNews.comEbola continues to spread, Liberia quarantines entire slum and begins deadly crackdown on protestors - NaturalNews.com






Español      Mobile Site

Home      Subscribe
(free)      About
NaturalNews      Contact
Us      Write
for NaturalNews      Media
Info      Advertising
Info











































CDC endangering America
Five Ebola lies
Top 10 Ebola preps to do NOW
Nature's antivirals revealed
CDC scientist confesses to vaccine fraud


































Ebola continues to spread, Liberia quarantines entire slum and begins deadly crackdown on protestors

Wednesday, August 20, 2014 by: J. D. HeyesTags: Ebola, quarantine, crackdown










Most Viewed Articles

Today | Week | Month | Year

The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
WHO finally admits sneezing and coughing can spread Ebola
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Huh? Ebola vaccine not being tested against Ebola
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
How to construct an emergency Ebola isolation room in your own home after the hospitals are overrun
Amaranth: a gluten-free grain rich in protein and minerals
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
NIH pushing to vaccinate entire countries with Ebola vaccine
Dry skin brushing can strengthen immunity, spark detoxification and reverse the hands of time
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Three medicinal mushrooms that are proven to fight disease
FDA approves experimental use of antiviral drug for Ebola, but still won't allow testing with colloidal silver or Echinacea



The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
Ebola spreads in Dallas hospital as health worker contracts deadly virus; CDC blames victim
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Flu shot facts for those considering the vaccinations
CDC now endangering all Americans by pushing five irresponsible assumptions about Ebola transmission
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The real Ebola risk to the USA is from uncontrolled outbreaks in Central and South America, not direct flights from Africa
The candida depression connection - How yeast leads to depression, anxiety, ADHD, and other mental disorders
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Packs of wild dogs spread Ebola after eating corpses
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Move over white noise: pink noise may help people sleep more soundly



The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Water rationing hits California: limit of 50 gallons per person per day or face fines of $500
Russia completes dry run of nuclear bombing attack on America
Do these ten pieces of evidence prove the U.S. government is actively encouraging an Ebola outbreak in America?
The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Governments seize colloidal silver being used to treat Ebola patients, says advocate
U.S. government openly admits vaccines are seriously harming children: see the email
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Illegal Immigrants get free education, housing and healthcare for crossing border; Americans get $5,000 fine
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
It's all scripted! Ebola outbreak and impossibly rapid vaccine response clearly scripted; U.S. govt. patented Ebola in 2010 and now owns all victims' blood
Bullet proof immune system - how to not get a cold ever
Pandemic Preparedness: The world's most powerful antiviral herbs and natural medicines revealed in free audio recording
FDA threatens three companies with criminal charges for making Ebola treatment claims (but won't test natural substances against Ebola)
Did Johanna Budwig really cure cancer naturally?
Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine



Six important facts you're not being told about lost Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
The lemon detox diet - a recipe that really works
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 now clearly a government cover-up: All evidence contradicts official story
10 health benefits of cucumbers
Why Walmart and Costco shrimp prices are so low - and why you should never buy from them again
Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property
Vitamin D deficiency symptoms explained: the top 9 warning signs
Six signs you might have gluten sensitivity and not know it
Does green tea have caffeine?  Seven things you need to know
Top six alkaline foods to eat every day for vibrant health
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
What the media isn't telling you about Elliott Rodger, the psycho killer who murdered six in a soulless rampage
Flight 370 passengers may still be alive; 'pirated' Boeing 777 may return to skies as stealth nuclear weapon
Plants won't grow near Wi-Fi routers, experiment finds
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Boost Low White Blood Cell Count and Immune Function Naturally


Popular on Facebook










The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media






White House admits staging fake vaccination operation to gather DNA from the public






Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'






EXCLUSIVE: Natural News tests flu vaccine for heavy metals, finds 25,000 times higher mercury level than EPA limit for water






Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?






Irrefutable proof we are all being sprayed with poison: 571 tons of toxic lead 'chemtrailed' into America's skies every year






Truvia sweetener a powerful pesticide; scientists shocked as fruit flies die in less than a week from eating GMO-derived erythritol






Russia taking McDonald's to court, threatens countrywide shutdown






Senator who attacked Doctor Oz over dietary supplements received over $146,000 in campaign contributions from Big Pharma mega-retailer and Monsanto






Global warming data FAKED by government to fit climate change fictions






Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property






Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine






HOAX confirmed: Michelle Obama 'GMOs for children' campaign a parody of modern agricultural politics






Ebola outbreak may already be uncontrollable; Monsanto invests in Ebola treatment drug company as pandemic spreads






Ben & Jerry's switches to non-GMO, Fair Trade ice cream ingredients






Elliot Rodger, like nearly all young killers, was taking psychiatric drugs (Xanax)






BREAKING: CDC whistleblower confesses to MMR vaccine research fraud in historic public statement






Right to farm being stripped from Americans: Michigan to criminalize small family farms with chickens, goats, honey bees and more





















Tweet


Pin It




















(NaturalNews) As the Ebola virus spreads throughout West Africa, governments there are becoming more and more authoritarian in how they are dealing with it -- actions that are born of fear as much as pragmatism.For instance, in Liberia in recent days, soldiers and police officers donning riot gear have blocked roads, cordoned off areas and have even intercepted citizens who set out on water, in canoes. Entire neighborhoods -- many sprawling slums with tens of thousands of people -- have been placed under isolation and quarantine, as the Liberian government continues to struggle with the virus's spread.'This is messed up'The New York Times reported on the results of the Liberian government's decisions:The reaction was swift and violent. Angry young men hurled rocks and stormed barbed-wire barricades, trying to break out. Soldiers repelled the surging crowd with live rounds, driving back hundreds of young men.One teenager in the crowd, Shakie Kamara, 15, lay on the ground near the barricade, his right leg apparently wounded by a bullet from the melee. "Help me," he pleaded, barefoot and wearing a green Philadelphia Eagles T-shirt."This is messed up," said Lt. Col. Abraham Kromah, the head of operations for the national police, who was looking at the teenager and complaining about the crowd. "They injured one of my police officers. That's not cool. It's a group of criminals that did this. Look at this child. God in heaven help us."The fights were part of a dangerous new chapter in the region's battle against the five-month-old outbreak of Ebola, the deadliest on record. And the virus is continuing to spread, despite government efforts; the total number of cases reported in the nations affected -- Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea and Nigeria -- is already higher than all other combined Ebola outbreaks since 1976, the Times reported, the year the disease was first identified.Thus far, the outbreak has been confined largely to rural areas. However, the disease has also traveled to major cities such as the Guinean capital of Conakry and the Liberian capital of Monrovia."Fighting Ebola in an urban area -- particularly in a neighborhood like this one, known as West Point, an extremely poor and often violent place that still bears deep scars from Liberia's 14 years of civil war -- presents challenges that the government and international aid organizations have only started grappling with," the Times reported.Many fear that Ebola risks further spread, and quickly. They note the difficulty in containing the spread, which healthcare professionals say is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to do in heavily populated urban centers -- especially when there is also a dearth of medical care and residents appear increasingly distrustful of the government's handling of the crisis.'They didn't know how to respond to it'As of this writing, at least 1,350 people have died in the current outbreak, the first of its kind in West Africa. The death rate is rising the fastest in Liberia, the country which also has the highest death toll of at least 576."Being the first time to get this problem, they didn't know what they were dealing with," Dr. David Kaggwa, a Ugandan physician with the World Health Organization, said of the Liberian government. "They didn't know how to respond to it. By the time they realized, it was way out of control."Dr. Kaggwa, speaking to the Times in a cholera ward at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center, which he helped turn into an Ebola ward, said that his own country's lengthy history with the disease was limited to rural outbreaks."The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is working intensively with partners to help stop the outbreak at its source in Africa," several of the agency's physicians wrote in The New England Journal of Medicine. "We are also assisting the four affected countries to improve their exit-screening protocols to help protect the rest of the world, including the United States."Sources:http://www.bostonglobe.comhttp://www.dailymail.co.ukhttp://www.nytimes.comhttp://www.nejm.orghttp://science.naturalnews.com













Join over four million monthly readers. Your privacy is protected. Unsubscribe at any time.





More news on Ebola
Ebola outbreak may already be uncontrollable; Monsanto invests in Ebola treatment drug company as pandemic spreadsThe five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass mediaEbola conspiracy theories abound: GMO bioweapon? DoD experiment gone wrong? Five incredible theories exploredIt's all scripted! Ebola outbreak and impossibly rapid vaccine response clearly scripted; U.S. govt. patented Ebola in 2010 and now owns all victims' bloodFDA, mainstream media denounce nano silver as 'bogus cure' for Ebola virusFDA threatens three companies with criminal charges for making Ebola treatment claims (but won't test natural substances against Ebola)Ebola transmission by aerosols confirmed: virus survives for days outside infected hosts













Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus


Take Action: Support NaturalNews.com by linking back to this article from your website

Permalink to this article:
http://www.naturalnews.com/046627_Ebola_quarantine_crackdown.html

Embed article link: (copy HTML code below):
Ebola continues to spread, Liberia quarantines entire slum and begins deadly crackdown on protestors

Reprinting this article:
Non-commercial use OK, cite NaturalNews.com with clickable link.

Follow Natural News on Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus, and Pinterest






























Advertise with NaturalNews...








Support NaturalNews Sponsors:





















Advertise with NaturalNews...





















GET SHOW DETAILS+ a FREE GIFT































NaturalNews.com

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Us
Contact Us/Feedback
Write for Natural News
Media Information
Advertise Information


Follow Us

Email Newsletter
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
YouTube
Diaspora
Seen
RSS


















This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners. 





































Sign up for the FREE Natural News Email Newsletter

Receive breaking news on GMOs, vaccines, fluoride, radiation protection, natural cures, food safety alerts and interviews with 
the world's top experts on natural health and more.

Join over 7 million monthly readers of NaturalNews.com, the internet's No. 1 natural health news site. (Source: Alexa.com)

Your email address *





Please enter the code you see above*




No Thanks

Already have it and love it!

Natural News supports and helps fund these organizations:




* Required. Once you click submit, we will send you an email asking you to confirm your free registration.
Your privacy is assured and your information is kept confidential. You may unsubscribe at anytime.










