Obama to send 3,000 troops to tackle EbolaObama to send 3,000 troops to tackle Ebola










Select a page Home INDIA WORLD LiFESTYLE ENTERTAINMENT GOSSIP TECH SPORTS JOBS


Home
INDIA
WORLD
LiFESTYLE
ENTERTAINMENT
GOSSIP
TECH
SPORTS
JOBS
 










BreakingNews MOPPING CALLS FOR ARRESTATION.: Apparently, John Thornton, 30, of Southington really likes a clean f Bollywood Celebrities Cast Vote for Maharashtra poll: Mumbai : Bollywood Celebrities came out on hol THIGH WITH A GAP.: It's the latest weight loss craze among  teens striving to emulate the models the NEW CLOONEY TALKS: The new wife of Hollywood star George Clooney, lawyer Amal Clooney, has had talks ITALY IS THANKING PROSTITUTES.: Rome (AFP) - Italy learnt it was no longer in a recession on Wednesd 






Search


 















    Custom Search
  














			Obama to send 3,000 troops to tackle Ebola	



	 				September 16, 2014	 			


	 				Written by 	 				Rohit Jamwal


	 				Published in	 				WORLD 

Permalink
	 			
	 			  
	 			
	 				 		




Tweet 





(Reuters) – The United States announced on Tuesday that it would send 3,000 troops to help tackle the Ebola outbreak as part of a ramped-up response including a major deployment in Liberia, the country where the epidemic is spiraling fastest out of control.
The U.S. response to the crisis, to be formally unveiled later by President Barack Obama, includes plans to build 17 treatment centers, train thousands of healthcare workers and establish a military control center for coordination, U.S. officials told reporters.
The World Health Organization has said it needs foreign medical teams with 500-600 experts as well as at least 10,000 local health workers, numbers that may rise if the number of cases increases, as it is widely expected to.
So far Cuba and China have said they will send medical staff to Sierra Leone. Cuba will deploy 165 people in October while China is sending a mobile laboratory with 59 staff to speed up testing for the disease. It already has 115 staff and a Chinese-funded hospital there.
But Liberia is where the disease appears to be running amok. The WHO has not issued any estimate of cases or deaths in the country since Sept 5 and its Director-General Margaret Chan has said there is not a single bed available for Ebola patients there.
Liberia, a nation founded by descendants of freed American slaves, appealed for U.S. help last week.
A U.N. official in the country said on Friday that her colleagues had resorted to telling locals to use plastic bags to fend off the killer virus, for want of any other protective equipment.
Medecins Sans Frontieres, the charity that has been leading the fight against Ebola, said it was overwhelmed and repeated its call for an immediate and massive deployment.
“We are honestly at a loss as to how a single, private NGO is providing the bulk of isolation units and beds,” MSF’s international president Joanne Liu said in a speech to the United Nations in Geneva, adding that the charity was having to turn away sick people in Monrovia.
“Highly infectious people are forced to return home, only to infect others and continue the spread of this deadly virus. All for a lack of international response,” she said.
Obama, who has called the epidemic a national security crisis, has faced criticism for not doing more to stem the outbreak, which the WHO said last week had killed more than 2,400 people out of 4,784 cases in West Africa.
Ebola Virus Arrives in Fifth Country During Worst-Ever OutbreakLiberia declares state of emergency as Ebola death toll rises to 932Ebola Epidemic:Evidence suggests that the outbreak is tremendously understatedMaximum Health Alert Issued To All Ports To Check Ebola Virus InvadeUnited Nations declares Ebola outbreak as threat to peace and security 	UK nurse who survived Ebola to help US patient


Tagged under
barack obama ebola Ebola Virus liberia united states


 










 



 



 



My TweetsTRENDING


Angry Mob cut off man’s sexual organ for attempting to rape 



Splitsvilla 7 11th October 2014 Ep 18 MTV India – Full Episode



MTV SPLITSVILLA 7 ONLINE EPISODE 18



SATYAMEV JAYATE SEASON 3 12TH OCTOBER 2014 – FULL EPISODE



SELENA GOMEZ IN A SEE THROUGH BATHING SUIT



Wait for sex and enjoy a happy married life



Hrithik Roshan shoots for Bang Bang﻿



Security guard supervisor in Cognizant, Jothi Ranjan Bagarti clears IAS final



Splitsvilla 7 4th October 2014 Ep 17 MTV India – Full Episode


 



 




22°CNew DelhiFogHumidity 83%Wind 0 km/h15 Oct 201431°C18°C16 Oct 201432°C17°C 




Back to top

Sign Up for Latest NEWS















Privacy Policy
About Us


				IndiaLive.today © an intiative by Copper Media. All Rights Reserved			


color1
color2
color3
color4
color5
color6









































