Revealed: How Ebola paralyses the immune system - health - 13 August 2014 - New ScientistRevealed: How Ebola paralyses the immune system - health - 13 August 2014 - New Scientist














SUBSCRIBE & SAVE 74%


MANAGE MY ACCOUNT »
STUDENTS »
GIVE A GIFT »






Health



    










Log in




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close




My New Scientist






Home
News
In-Depth Articles
Opinion
CultureLab
Galleries
Topic Guides
Last Word





Subscribe


Dating




Look for Science Jobs






SPACE
TECH
ENVIRONMENT
HEALTH
LIFE
PHYSICS&MATH
SCIENCE IN SOCIETY
Cookies & Privacy















Home
|Health
|

		News


		Revealed: How Ebola paralyses the immune system


		17:00 13 August 2014 by
			Andy Coghlan

			For similar stories, visit the
				Epidemics and Pandemics
					
						Topic Guide






Deaths in Africa from Ebola reached 1013 earlier this week, with 1848 cases reported. The World Health Organization, which had declared the outbreak a global health emergency, gave ethical clearance to treat patients with the untested drug ZMapp. With all the activity on the ground in Africa – not to mention the amount of media coverage – it was something of a surprise to find that the specific way Ebola kills has only just been discovered.
In essence, the virus blocks what would usually be an instant response to infection, paralysing the body's entire immune system. Gaya Amarasinghe of the Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, Missouri, and colleagues say the breakthrough could guide the development of new treatments.
There are no vaccines for Ebola, and until recently ZMapp had only been tested in monkeys. Normally, the body responds to infections by producing a substance called interferon, which acts as a fast-track message to white blood cells, telling them to mobilise genes and proteins. Amarasinghe's team found that the Ebola virus produces a substance called VP24, which blocks the channel through which interferon usually travels, crippling the immune system.
With its usual protective mechanisms knocked out, a cell is then defenceless against the virus. Amarasinghe says that drugs which target VP24 might provide alternative ways to combat the virus. Other virologists say that neutralising VP24 alone might not be enough because, like many other viruses, Ebola has other methods to thwart interferon's distress signals. "The rest of the parts of the virus can still work and replicate without VP24," says Ben Neuman of the University of Reading, UK.
Not cheap, not easy
Neuman says it might be difficult to find drugs that target VP24 exclusively without causing side effects. But he says that there are already drugs that target a similar molecule in the hepatitis C virus, called NS5A, without damaging healthy cells. "They're astoundingly effective," he says. "So in theory it could be done for VP24, but it won't be cheap or easy."





Options for treatments are now urgently needed. Liberia this week received a small amount of ZMapp, a mixture of three monoclonal antibodies, but only enough to treat two people. The company that makes the drug, Mapp Biopharmaceutical in San Diego, California, says only very limited supplies of ZMapp are available. So far it has been used on two infected US aid workers, who both showed signs of improvement. But yesterday it emerged that it had failed to save the life of a Spanish priest, Miguel Pajares, who was infected in Liberia.
The WHO declares a Public Health Emergency of International Concern when an outbreak crosses borders and poses an unusual threat. It has made such a declaration only twice before: for swine flu in 2009 and the polio resurgence in Pakistan earlier this year. The Ebola declaration asserts that "a coordinated international response" is required to stop further spread, because of "weak health systems in the most at-risk countries".
Journal reference: Cell Host & Microbe, DOI: 10.1016/j.chom.2014.07.008
Leader: "Let's rush the Ebola drug out – and be ready next time"





















If you would like to reuse any content from New Scientist, either in print or online, please contact the syndication department first for permission. New Scientist does not own rights to photos, but there are a variety of licensing options available for use of articles and graphics we own the copyright to.





















Ebola's fallen: bringing out the dead (Image: Camera Press/Ahmed Jallanzo)


ADVERTISEMENT









More
Latest news


Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



A smell-defying mystery to savour

18:00 15 October 2014
Losing their sense of smell can leave people feeling emotionally blunted – so why is a new exhibition about anosmia so moving, asks Mick O'Hare



Stem cells improve vision enough for horse riding


00:00 15 October 2014
People blinded because of degenerating retinal cells have seen improvements in their sight thanks to injections of retinal cells made from stem cells



What I'd ask Spider-Man, mascot of bio-inspiration


20:00 14 October 2014
Like Peter Parker, Jeff Karp takes ideas from nature and improves on them to make the world a better place. His superpower is innovating in medical technology



see all related stories




MoreLatest news


What would a world without fossil fuels look like?


20:00 15 October 2014
Our advanced civilisation is built on easily exploited coal, oil and gas. New Scientist explores an alternative history that holds lessons for us all



Extinct giant kangaroos didn't hop, they walked 


19:00 15 October 2014
They had faces like rabbits and some were 2 metres tall, but the oddest thing about extinct relatives of modern kangaroos is that they walked just like us



Cancer code aims to nudge us all into avoiding risks

18:30 15 October 2014
Along with the usual suspects, cigarettes and booze, the European code for avoiding cancer has been updated to include having the HPV vaccine and breastfeeding



Fly in the face of danger with first-person drone view


18:00 15 October 2014
Zip past obstacles at 160 kilometres an hour but without risking life and limb – the immersive sport of first-person video drone racing makes it possibleStomach-dropping speed and stunts are the norm in first-person drone racing, finds Hal Hodson



see all latest news



 



Most read




5 reasons to worry about a quagga mussel invasion
Pentagon warns the US military of climate change
Desktop sonic black hole emits Hawking radiation
Fish love skyscraper-style living under oil platforms
Exercise may be the best anti-ageing pill




Most read







 


FOLLOW US

Get editors' picks in your social streams


















This week's issue
Subscribe



For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues



18 October 2014





For exclusive news and expert analysis, subscribe to New Scientist.

Gain full online access
Current issue content
Content of past issues




ADVERTISEMENT













Back to top




















Login




Email

Password

 Remember me

Your login is case sensitive
I have forgotten my password


Register now
Activate my subscription
Institutional login
Athens login


close










About us

New Scientist

Syndication

Recruitment Advertising

Staff at New Scientist

Advertise

RBI Jobs




User Help
Contact Us
FAQ / Help
Disclaimer
Ts & Cs
Cookies
Privacy Policy




Subscriptions
Subscribe
Renew

Gift subscription
Student Subscription

My account

Back issues
Customer Service




Links
Site Map
Browse all articles
Magazine archive
NewScientistJobs
The Last Word
RSS Feeds

Online StoreiOS & Android apps
Low-bandwidth site




Science Jobs
Search all Jobs
Biology Jobs
Chemistry Jobs
Clinical Jobs
Earth & Environment Jobs
Engineering Jobs
Maths & IT Jobs
Careers Advice




© Copyright Reed Business Information Ltd.














