 British Ebola victim discharged from hospital British Ebola victim discharged from hospital





 






  



Politics

Iran Election
Military Issues
Nuclear program


Economics

Currency Crisis
Sanctions Against Iran


Society

Culture
Human Rights


Regional Affairs

Bahrain Protests
Palestine Issue
Syrian Crisis


World

Europe
Israel
U. S.


Iran’s Coverage
About
Links
  







Home » News » British Ebola victim discharged from hospital 

British Ebola victim discharged from hospital


September 3, 2014 3:37 pm
News, World no comments

 


AFP/CDC/AFP/File – This colorized transmission electron micrograph (TEM) obtained March 24, 2014 from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia, reveals some of the ultrastructural morphology displayed by an Ebola virus virion
A British nurse infected with Ebola while working in Sierra Leone was discharged from a London hospital on Wednesday after recovering from the disease following treatment with the experimental drug ZMapp.
“I was very lucky,” said William Pooley, who had been working as a volunteer in one of the worst hit areas and was flown out of Africa on a specially-equipped British military plane.
“I had some unpleasant symptoms but nothing compared to some of the worst of the disease, especially when people end up dying,” said Pooley, who has been the only Briton reportedly infected.
The Royal Free Hospital, the only facility in Britain with a high level isolation unit that can host Ebola patients, said the treatment had been “successful”.
Pooley, who spent 10 days in the hospital, was given ZMapp which was used on two US missionaries who also recovered.
“I wish that the level of care I’ve received here could be provided there,” the hospital quoted Pooley as saying.
By AFP
 
The Iran Project is not responsible for the content of quoted articles.
Tags: Ebola experimental drug ZMapp Ebola outbreak Ebola virus Quoted Sierra Leone

 



0 Comments
You can be the first one to leave a comment.


Leave a Comment
 
Click here to cancel reply.


Name (required):

E-Mail (required):

Website:



Comment:



 






 




Share this article



 Tweet this!
 Digg it!
 Add to Delicious!
 Share on Facebook!
 Share on Reddit!
 Stumble it
 Add to Technorati
 Subscribe by RSS

 



search


Search for:



 

  
 Recent Post

 
Quake jolts Murmuri
Gov’t spokesman: Iran, G5+1 still at serious odds
Rafsanjani advises west to reach settlement with Iran
Zarif, Ashton, Kerry review nuclear dispute in Vienna
Iran’s coverage: ‘N-differences linger but can be solved’
Larijani: US proposals are far reaching
Official declares outline of Iran-Russia trade agreement
Iran condemns massacre, abduction, enslaving of women by terrorists
Bank allocates $300mn to boost Iran export to Iraq
Islamic Jihad chief, Iranian officials to discuss regional security concerns

 

 

 




Web developer: Mostafa hojjat


