16 Incredible Facts Will Change the Way You Think About Africa - Mic16 Incredible Facts Will Change the Way You Think About Africa - Mic

























Follow @MicNews





SHARE



TWEET 
















Policy
Arts
World
Sports
Music
Identities
News


Most Viewed Today in 



Study Finds What Everyone Knew — Voter ID Laws Are Definitely Racist




Democrats Are More Unpopular Now Than at Any Point in the Last 30 Years




The Top Senate Republican Has No Clue How Obamacare Actually Works




The Supreme Court Just Blocked Texas From Closing Its Abortion Clinics


 


Get Ready For At Least Three More 'Harry Potter' Spin-Off Movies




Excited About HBO's New Streaming Service? Thank Millennials




Warner Brothers Just Announced Six Years' Worth of DC Superhero Films




Every Episode of 'Friends' Is Coming to Netflix in 2015


 


There's One Simple Thing That Marie Claire's Editor-In-Chief Says Creates Success




9 Innovative Ways to Streamline Email Into Your Workday




One Woman's Mastectomy Becomes Her Inspiration to Create the Perfect Nipple




There's a Huge Shift In the Way Companies Need to Think About Accountability


 


This Brutal Video Might Breathe New Life Into Hong Kong's Protest Movement




Did You Forget All About #BringBackOurGirls? Nigerians Didn't




Archaeologists Have Discovered the "Titanic of the Ancient World" in Greece




This One Town Could Change the Course of the Fight Against the Islamic State


 


The NBA Has a Bright Idea to Make Basketball Games More Exciting




This Perfect Interaction Between a Pitcher and Fan Renews Our Faith in Pro Athletes




5 Tweets Show Just How Much Florida Cares About Hockey




This Legally Blind 11-Year-Old Is Set on Olympic Gold


 



Nick Jonas Really, Really Wants to Be a Gay Idol




The Internet's Response to Kesha's Abuse Allegations Is Everything Wrong With Rape Culture




11 Cities for Young Musicians That Aren't New York or Los Angeles




Taylor Swift Just Released a New Song and Everyone's Pretty Sure They Know Who It's About


 


'SNL' Has One of the Year's Most Surprisingly Sharp Critiques of Poverty Aid in Africa




Clueless Men's Rights Activist Bravely Protests "All Jane No Dick" Comedy Festival




Who Has the Right to Tell the Stories of Marginalized People?




A Gamer Threatened a Mass Shooting if This Woman Spoke About Gender and Video Games


 


The Next Disease Outbreak Might Start With New York's Insanely Diseased Rats




Brace Yourself: The Polar Vortex Is Making a Comeback




A Texas College's New Policy Sums Up What's Wrong With How We Talk About Ebola




No, Iraq Didn't Have 'Weapons of Mass Destruction' After All


 






16 Incredible Facts Will Change the Way You Think About Africa

        By Aubrey Hruby             August 28, 2014
 


SHARE



TWEET 










 






 






 







 16 Incredible Facts Will Change the Way You Think About Africa
                    
                        
                Image Credit: Kai Krause


html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html40/loose.dtd"
This is a guest post written by Aubrey Hruby and and Eliot Pence. Hruby is a Visiting Fellow at the Africa Center at the Atlantic Council and is a consultant helping companies do business in African markets. Eliot Pence is the director of the Africa practice at McLarty Associates and founder of Upstream Analytics. 
Africa has officially arrived. Earlier this month at the first ever U.S.-Africa Leaders Forum, Washington D.C. saw more Africa than ever before. Forty-two African heads of state joined President Obama in ushering in a new era. Anyone who cares about Africa couldn't help but feel excited at the additional attention the summit brought the continent — a continent too few know enough about. 

"Africa rising" is the bumper-sticker description for Africa's dramatic change. But the phrase doesn't quite capture the enormity of the change. At Africa's current growth rate, living standards will increase more in 50 years than they did over in 1,000 years in the West. 
While Africa's economic success is staggering, the implications reach far beyond that. There's a perfect storm of innovation. Economic growth has led to a technological boom and cultural renaissance. The transformation is dramatically changing the way Africa is seeing the world, and how the world is seeing Africa. In the future, Lupita and Chimamanda may be as common as Barack and Madiba, two African names Americans already know well.
Here are 16 facts that prove why Africa is the continent everyone should be watching. 
1) In the 1970s, Africa's entire population was one-half of Europe's. Today, Africa's population is more than double the EU's. 
2) More transactions are done by mobile money in Kenya than in the U.S. Kenyans have done $12.5 billion worth of business in the first six months of 2014. 
3) Over 100 incubators have been founded in the past 48 months in Africa. And you thought Silicon Valley was the future of technology. 
4) Rwanda ranks highest in the world for number of women parliamentarians at 64%.
 

Image Credit: National Geographic
5) Africa has four wireless cities including Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and Kigali in Rwanda.
6) In less than three generations, over 40% of the world's youth will be African.

Image Credit: The Washington Post
7) Cell phones have changed everything (70% of Africans own one). An African kid with a cell phone has access to more immediate information than the president of United States did 15 years ago. 
8) Nollywood, Nigeria's movie industry, is the second-largest movie industry in the world behind Bollywood, and puts out twice as many movies as Hollywood.

Image Credit: Indiegogo
9) Africa is now nearly as urbanized as China, and has as many cities of 1 million people or more — the same as Europe.
10) Major Silicon Valley titans like Facebook and Google now battle it out in Africa, with both companies investing in projects to bring Internet access to isolated parts of the continent.

11) More Guinness is drunk in Nigeria than Ireland.

Image Credit: John Atherton via Flickr
12) Africans and people of recent African descent are highly educated. Of the 300,000 educated Africans in diaspora, 30,000 of them have Ph.D.s.
13) Fifteen years ago, Tanzania's population was the size of California. In 2100, it will be 276 million, nearly the size of America's today.
14) In the next three years, the number of smartphone shipments to Africa will double. Some even predict that the majority of Africans will own a smartphone by 2017.
15) Champagne consumption is growing faster in Nigeria than anywhere else in the world.
16) Also, Africans like us. Three of the top 10 countries with positive views of the United States are African!

Image Credit: Pew Research Center






Like us on Facebook:






SHARE



TWEET 



 
Aubrey Hruby 
            Africa Business and investment adviser.  Co-Author of upcoming book on African Transformation.         

 Follow @aubreyhruby


 





You Might Be Interested In






 

Identities
About 14,000 Men In the Military Were Raped Last Year — Almost None Will Report It

        By Jack Fischl  
  



 

SPONSOREDBy Cole Haan Two Teenage Girls Have Invented the Most Powerful Video Game of the Year

Michael McCutcheon  
  



 

News
There's Been Another Ebola Diagnosis in Texas

        By Sophie  Kleeman  
  



 

FEATURED PARTNER
What's Next For 3-D Printing, From the Man Who's Making It Happen

 Michael McCutcheon  
  





 

FEATURED PARTNER
Taylor Swift Takes Down Emma Watson Critics in The Best Way Possible

 Elizabeth Plank  
  



 

Arts
The Massive Portrait on the National Mall Is More Than Just a Pretty Face

        By Sophie  Kleeman  
  



 

Sports
Intense Photos of Athletic Greatness From the Ironman World Championship

        By Jared Keller  
  



 

News
American Nurses Have No Idea How to Handle Ebola

        By Eileen Shim  
  
 

Join the Discussion

New Response

Be the first to comment



Top Responses ()



All Responses ()

Load More Responses
Show All Responses


Loading Responses












World This One Town Could Change the Course of the Fight Against the Islamic State

        By Coleen Jose  

    



News UCLA Researchers Found Something Surprising About the Brains of Marijuana Smokers

        By Matt Connolly  

    



Identities Finally, One Map Documents the Tragedy Facing North America's Indigenous Women

        By Zak Cheney-Rice  

    



News This Description of Google Glass Addiction Is Terrifying


        By Tom McKay  

    



World Archaeologists Have Discovered the "Titanic of the Ancient World" in Greece

        By Eileen Shim  

    



News Here's How Insane Inequality Has Become in the U.S., in One Stunning Chart

        By Eileen Shim  

    



Identities A Gamer Threatened a Mass Shooting if This Woman Spoke About Gender and Video Games

        By Eileen Shim  

    



News A Second Dallas Health Care Worker Has Been Diagnosed With Ebola

        By Sophie  Kleeman  

    



Policy The Top Senate Republican Has No Clue How Obamacare Actually Works

        By Gregory  Krieg  

    



World This Brutal Video Might Breathe New Life Into Hong Kong's Protest Movement

        By Coleen Jose  

    






CLOSE | X
Do you agree that ourgeneration needs a voice?


Facebook





Twitter

Follow







SHARE:






 


 








SHARE



TWEET 


PIN









Company

About Us
Our Team
Contact Us
Jobs
Policies
-------------
Login
Register



Platform


Policy 

Arts 

World 

Sports 

Music 

Identities 

News 




Newsletter












You are subscribed to our newsletter!  Please check your inbox to confirm.




 

Follow Us












                Copyright © Mic Network Inc. All rights reserved325 Hudson Street, 1001, New York, NY 10013
















