Global Mega Trends and Norway - Panel at the Norwegian Research Counc…Global Mega Trends and Norway - Panel at the Norwegian Research Counc…






SlideShare for iOS
by Linkedin Corporation







FREE - On the App Store

INSTALL












Explore




































Upload



Login


Signup





















×










Share





Email





Embed





Like





Liked





Save


Loading embed code…


                    We have emailed the verification/download link to "".
                    
                    Login to your email and click the link to download the file directly.
                  


To request the link at a different email address, update it here.


Close
Validation messages.
Success message.
Fail message.


Check your bulk/spam folders if you can't find our mail.





Loading 



















































































Upcoming SlideShare











Loading in...5
×




 



 

«
‹
›
»


 
 
/23












Like this presentation? Why not share!

Share
Email


 



 








Nerissa's Print Design Portfolio_2014
by Nerissa Thomas
352 views







Ten reasons to choose mobi view eitt
by William  McIntosh
300 views







Environmental researcher cover letter
by selinasimpson179
245 views







New studentorientation
by pdickenson
398 views







Academic planning 1
by Tayah Butler
327 views







College & University :: College fun...
by earthycharlatan33
314 views







Whitepaper: 2013 Cost of Data Breac...
by Symantec
857 views







MetricWire For Consumer Insights Pr...
by Les Magyar
359 views







Protecting aquatic ecosystems
by D1VYA
100 views







Heart centered
by Taren Walters
193 views







Educational Technology
by Jheng Asuncion
286 views







Informe II
by EnyuOjeda3
407 views





 






Share SlideShare







Facebook




Twitter




LinkedIn




Pinterest






Email












Email sent successfully!




Embed




Size (px)



Start on




Show related SlideShares at end





WordPress Shortcode





Link


















Recommended


Related


More










Nerissa's Print Design Portfolio_2014
352 views









Ten reasons to choose mobi view eitt
300 views









Environmental researcher cover letter
245 views









New studentorientation
398 views









Academic planning 1
327 views









College & University :: College funding solutions College Knowledge Makes You N……
314 views









Whitepaper: 2013 Cost of Data Breach Study
857 views









MetricWire For Consumer Insights Professionals
359 views









Protecting aquatic ecosystems
100 views









Heart centered
193 views









Educational Technology
286 views









Informe II
407 views









Usual mlm problems and ways to solve them
182 views









Having Problem With Making Cash Online? Want Rapid Access To Great Concepts On ……
390 views









Steam Bending - Curvamento de Madeira
152 views









Mi catalogo
160 views









High performance buildings & rating tools
506 views









Cassandra Summit 2014: Apache Cassandra at ING: Testing the Waters – Consistenc……
467 views









Fases para la elaboración de un programa informático
115 views









Presentacion de power point de las pract educ
240 views









Car tracking device
328 views









Cutting Through the Clutter: How to effectively put together a social media cam……
183 views









Marlin Designs - Power Point
410 views









Desde el Impresionismo al Futurismo 
113 views









UNESCO:Learning to do
154 views









Develop your mobile app with the leader in the app stores - www.ncrts.com
199 views









Resumen
140 views









What You Ought to Understand about Track record Management
267 views









Ways to Plan For A Successful Trip That Everybody Will Love
237 views









Creating Content For SEO by Engagency Online Marketing
364 views









Literature
157 views









Managing Responsive Design Projects
5674 views









Veterinary Payment Plans Designed to Benefit Both Pets and Vets
395 views









Remedial Instruction
150 views









Copycat report_101850_윤혜인
109 views









Ensayo
114 views









Thông tin du học úc tại trường griffith
81 views









Guía de estudio Estrategias de la Comunicación 
161 views









Philosophy
147 views









Exposicion del  utilitarismo
98 views














Reconciliation after war - Maggy Barankitse from Burundi speaks at fritt ord, n……
44 views









Spørsmål om kjønnsdiskriminering i Forsvarsforeningen og Kvinners frivillige b……
151 views









How may ict in education help reach global development goals
840 views









Human rights, gender mainstreaming and cultural awareness
1936 views









Human rights, gender mainstreamingand cultural awareness
621 views









Questions for Amnesty: Why legalize buying of sex?
1335 views









Aid for Gender Equality - UNU WIDER Conference 16 dec 2013
2815 views









Hjelp vi er på twitter! Bruk twitter som søkemotor
509 views









Implementing Rule of Law in Development Co-operation - Does it Work?
996 views









Sosiale medier i endring - Eksempler fra Nokia, EU, Yara og Telenor ppt
1389 views









Value of Diversity at the Workplace  Presentation by Tina Tinde at career forum……
2519 views









Verdien av mangfold på arbeidsplassen   Innlegg av Gry Tina Tinde på ANSAs nors……
1620 views









Diversity Candidates, What Next? Working in an International Organization
914 views









Embassy evening series   social media and women's international leadership
724 views









Ics embassy evening-series.program.03.28.2012[1]
669 views









Ff flier -march_23[1]
316 views









Launch of IDB Asian Affinity Group and Film Screening of "Chinee Girl", Nov 11
757 views









Celebrating International Women's Day at Inter-American Development Bank
849 views









Attracting Haitian Talents to the Inter-American Development Bank
1691 views









Caribbean-American Youth Leadership Forum, IDB June 24 2011
1841 views









UN Security Council Res 1325 on Women, Peace and Security advocacy study
1293 views













Global Mega Trends and Norway - Panel at the Norwegian Research Council 18 Sept 2014






Follow




 


 




by
                    
Gry Tina Tinde

,

Senior Advisor, Research, Innovation and Higher Education Section


at
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad)




 on Sep 19, 2014







Tweet




998 views


What are the main international challenges we are facing, and how do they affect Norway? Researchers from universities in Sweden and Norway and a solar energy company discuss issues and trends related ...

Show more


              What are the main international challenges we are facing, and how do they affect Norway? Researchers from universities in Sweden and Norway and a solar energy company discuss issues and trends related to clean energy, climate, economy, global health, the aging of the population, surveillance, technology, solar power, coal and developments in China and Southeast Asia. How may research help find viable solutions to these challenges?  
            


Statistics




Views

Total Views
998
Views on SlideShare
976
Embed Views
22



Actions

Likes
0
Downloads
2
Comments
0




6 Embeds
22





https://twitter.com
17


https://m.facebook.com&_=1411093038124 HTTP
1


https://m.facebook.com&_=1411095351823 HTTP
1


https://www.facebook.com
1


https://m.facebook.com&_=1411106967788 HTTP
1


https://m.facebook.com&_=1411238345444 HTTP
1










Accessibility

View text version



Categories

Education



Upload Details
Uploaded via
                    

SlideShare


as 
Microsoft PowerPoint



Usage Rights
© All Rights Reserved



Report content


Flagged as inappropriate
Flag as inappropriate



Flag as inappropriate
Select your reason for flagging this presentation as inappropriate.

None
Pornographic
Defamatory
Illegal/Unlawful
Spam
Other Terms Of Service Violation


Cancel





File a copyright complaint








Show less








No comments yet


Notes on Slide 1









Full Name







                  Comment goes here.
                

12 hours ago

Reply
Edit
Delete
Spam
Block



Are you sure you want to
Yes
No


                  Your message goes here
                









 Subscribe to comments
Post Comment





Edit your comment


Cancel






More…


More…





Global Mega Trends and Norway - Panel at the Norwegian Research Council 18 Sept 2014
Presentation Transcript



                      1.
                    Global Mega Trends 
and Norway 
At the Norwegian Research Council office inauguration 18 Sept 2014. 
From left: Stein Tønnesson, Anne Lise Fimreite, Erik Wold, Terje Osmundsen, 
Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe and Jesper Simonsen. 
 
                  

2.
                    Prime Minister Erna 
Solberg 
Celebrating the office move to 
Lysaker by the Oslo Fjord, the 
Norwegian Research Council 
held parallel sessions on topical 
issues and an inauguration 
reception. Events were part of 
the National Science Week. 
In a keynote talk the Prime 
Minister assured of her 
government’s plans for 
increased investment in 
research and innovation. 
 
                  

3.
                    Welcome by Jesper 
Simonsen 
Jesper W. Simonsen, Executive 
Director of the Department of 
Society and Health at the 
Norwegian Research Council 
opened one of the parallel 
sessions: “Global Mega Trends 
and Norway”. Some 180 persons 
attended. 
He said more research activities 
are moving to the global south 
and east. What does this and 
other global mega trends mean 
for Norway's economy, society 
and the need for knowledge? 
Mr. Simonsen asked 
 
                  

4.
                    Moderator: Erik Wold 
Moderator of the panel was Erik Wold, formerly at Norway's 
Broadcasting Corporation (NRK) - now head of 
www.kjordebatt.no. Mr. Wold congratulated the Norwegian 
Research Council on the new office. Here it is seen from the fjord. 
 
                  

                      5.
                    Starting with the news 
- There are big questions on the agenda, Mr. Wold said. Having been a 
news reporter for more than 35 years, he said he could not resist 
mentioning that Norway's government announced this afternoon that it 
would send five officers to the US to join the planning of a war against 
the terrorist group ISIS. 
Mr. Wold wished to take the opportunity to ask a renowned peace 
researcher on the panel, Dr. Stein Tønnesson, about his views on Norway 
participating in a war against ISIS. Dr. Tønnesson said Norway's armed 
forces have gained active combat experience from their international 
engagement in the years since the Cold War ended. In comparison, 
China's armed forces have not had combat experience since 1979, 
when it fought against Vietnam. This shows how the actions of a small 
country like Norway can shift and be a contrast to a big power like 
China. 
 
                  

                      6.
                    Studying peace, finding 
cause for concern 
Dr. Tønnesson said he was pessimistic about the future. It is 
pure luck that the third world war has not started, he said. 
He does research on Southeast Asia at Uppsala University in 
Sweden. Southeast Asia is a region that has focused on 
peace and stability since 1979. However, new leaders in 
the region now have different priorities. 
There is a tendency to undermine the peaceful trends that 
he is studying. - If we have a third world war, it will start in 
Southeast Asia, Dr. Tønnesson said. 
 
                  

                      7.
                    Fast shift to green energy 
Dr. Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe is Professor of Economics at the 
University of Oslo. She said an important trend is that things move 
faster than before. An economic shift toward Asia is clear. The 
European solar energy industry, for instance, has been pushed 
out of the market by Chinese producers. 
Dr. Terje Osmundsen is Senior Vice President at Scatec Solar. Not 
wanting to draw any conclusions on how fast or slowly things 
move, he said let us describe what happens and each of us can 
make up our mind. The green shift goes much faster than any of 
the predictions and analyses you have on your desks today. Even 
in the US with low natural gas prices, sun and wind energy is 
cheaper. Countries now see that there are many problems 
related to fossil energy sources. Renewable energy stands out as 
more viable, Dr. Osmundsen said. 
 
                  

                      8.
                    Energy going local 
Decentralized energy production is happening, and this is intentional 
and smart, according to Dr. Osmundsen. The development is toward 
local energy solutions. More and more buildings are self supplied 
with one type of energy or another. He is optimistic about the 
future, he said. Investors have started worrying about the carbon 
bubble. The price of oil & gas production has increased enormously, 
while renewables are cheaper. The security aspect is also important. 
It is a risk for a country to rely on imported fuel. 
- When the company Musk says it is building a gigawatt battery 
industry it sends a strong signal, Dr. Osmundsen said. Info on Musk. 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe asked: Does anyone believe we will reach the 2 
degree target? 
Dr. Osmundsen replied that this can be much cheaper than we 
think, due to price reductions of renewable energy. 
 
                  

                      9.
                    Climate refugees and 
aging population 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe warned about dire consequences the world is facing 
due to global warming. She said all parts of the world will either 
experience or be affected by climate refugees. 
Dr. Anne Lise Fimreite is Pro-Rector at the University of Bergen and 
Researcher at the Rokkan Centre. She brought up an issue which 
she said moves slowly - the aging of the population. In the welfare 
sector this is a big challenge. The population pyramid looks entirely 
different from what we are used to. Growing need for health care of 
the many new centenarians, for example, and adaptation of the 
labor market to people's long lives etc. are linked to this. 
- How can comparatively few employed people finance the 
pensions of the elderly who may live 30-40 years after retirement? Dr. 
Fimreite asked. - We have not fully grasped this as a society. - 
Pension commitments in Norway and globally are massive and very 
expensive to follow through, she added. 
 
                  

                      10.
                    Research to the rescue 
- What can researchers do? Mr. Wold asked. Dr. Fimreite 
recommended researchers to make points clear and be 
innovative. Technology may for instance help people live at 
home longer. Some of the new technology may however also be 
used for surveillance, and this is worrying, Dr. Fimreite added. 
Dr. Tønnesson said the population explosion that was debated 
and feared in earlier decades, has now taken on a very different 
shape. People live much longer and the world's women on 
average have under two children. Better policies are necessary 
to help societies face the steep increase in the number of elderly 
persons. Research & innovation can help. 
- Technology for today's seniors needs to be adapted to their skills 
and needs, without a focus on speed, he said. 
 
                  

                      11.
                    Balancing national and 
global needs 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said there is indeed a need to understand and 
act on the information we have about aging populations. 
- Will the economic global issues be sensibly handled by 
politicians in the future? Dr. Osmundsen asked. Can we expect 
to see sustainable and inclusive policies? Sweden's 
parliamentary election results this week show that there is 
resistance. 
Dr. Fimreite said she expects there will be a clash between 
global needs and Norway's privileged situation. Recent events 
involving Russia show how conflicts may move closer at any 
time. 
Dr. Tønnesson said we must hope to include Russia in the global 
economy again. 
 
                  

                      12.
                    Coal up or down? 
- Is there not an increase in the use of coal as fuel? Dr. 
Tønnesson asked Dr. Osmundsen. 
Dr. Osmundsen replied that coal use is on its way down this 
year. China is putting in demands regarding its coal use. 
China may reach the top of its coal use in two-three years 
and then it is expected to flatten out. 
He said it is an interesting signal that Chile now prices CO2. 
Yesterday Chile's parliament adopted a CO2 fee. Investors 
in the market will see possibilities and push coal producers 
to reduce operations. This will not happen overnight, but I 
believe we can avert a climate catastrophe, Dr. 
Osmundsen said. 
 
                  

                      13.
                    Do youth see a bright 
future? Via innovation? 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said these are very difficult matters and she 
is not as optimistic as Dr. Osmundsen. Speaking about the 
youth today, she said demographic changes and climate 
challenges should bring scores of young people out in the 
streets in daily protests. In the 1960s and 70s there were 
many more protests, yet the challenges we face today are 
very alarming. 
In Dr. Osmundsen's view there is great potential in the 
Norwegian private sector to develop more smart solutions 
and gadgets that could find a global market. Due to its 
silicon resource Norway was leading on solar energy earlier. 
There are now thousands of products and innovation by 
small actors in this field globally. 
 
                  

                      14.
                    Research in high demand 
Mr. Wold asked what type of research is needed to solve the 
issues the world is facing? Is more basic research something you 
would recommend? 
Dr. Fimreite said she wishes to see more interdisciplinary climate 
research. She noted that there is much cross-fertilization between 
subject areas, with petroleum and medicine being an example 
of this. We know of many areas where we need basic research, 
she added. Research closely linked to professional/business 
needs is in high demand. Such research could help find solutions 
to the issues sparked by an aging population. 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said basic research must help us deal with 
structural changes that we meet in the economy. Issues and 
findings we believed were irrelevant before may find new use 
today. 
 
                  

                      15.
                    More international 
partnerships needed 
- How important is Norwegian research to other countries? Mr. 
Wold asked. 
Dr. Tønnesson said in some areas we make a solid contribution. 
However we should spend less money on EU research because 
it's bureaucratic and cumbersome. Norway should finance more 
research than it does today, and in addition finance Norwegian 
researchers' cooperation with partners abroad. The cooperation 
that the Norwegian Research Council has with for instance China 
is excellent, he said. 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said all research that facilitates international 
cooperation is good. She agrees that Norway should finance 
research with other countries, although this may not be easy to 
achieve politically. 
 
                  

                      16.
                    Demonstrate research, 
cultivate talents 
Dr. Osmundsen said Norway is an interesting test market, 
e.g. for electrical cars. To succeed in finding and using 
good solutions we need more demonstration of research - 
not least in the climate areas. Testing is necessary. Norway 
could contribute such an initiative to COP 21/the 2015 Paris 
climate meeting. 
Dr. Fimreite reminded of Norway's successes in sports and 
urged universities and research communities to cultivate 
young research talent and be more proactive. 
 
                  

                      17.
                    China explores sea 
“grabbing” 
Mr. Wold asked: Is Norway being marginalized? 
Yes, Dr. Tønnesson said, adding that Norway was closer to 
the center of the world when it was in Europe. The arctic 
areas are receiving attention in China. Also, the work 
Norway did on the law of the sea has been noticed in Asia. 
He had bought a book in Vietnam, in Vietnamese, on the 
law of the sea. An illustration in one of the first pages was 
from Norway, showing the maritime borders. 
China seeks to gain control of sea areas it has no right to 
and is considering leaving the UN Convention on the Law 
of the Sea. If China breaks out it is a problem. This needs to 
be monitored, Dr. Tønnesson said. 
 
                  

                      18.
                    Global action for health 
Are there any research areas we could tone down? Mr. 
Wold asked. 
The panelists did not suggest any areas that need less 
attention. On the contrary, research and knowledge was 
more needed than ever. 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said global health is a mega trend in 
research. She serves as Commissioner of Global Health 
2035, an initiative supported by, among others, The Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation and the Norwegian Agency for 
Development Cooperation (Norad). 
 
                  

                      19.
                    Tackling epidemics 
- We have major health threats such as Ebola and 
multi-resistant tuberculosis, Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said.- Such 
concerns bring us closer to each other and helps 
mobilize resources for the fight. Sadly, the World 
Health Organization (WHO) has a tiny budget, she 
said. 
- Ironically, the obesity epidemic is as lethal as hunger, 
she said. Physical activity is key for children, youth and 
adults. Many of the illnesses of the elderly may be 
prevented by eating healthy and being active. Better 
results in this area will greatly reduce health care 
expenses. 
 
                  

                      20.
                    Knowledge sharing 
Dr. Osmundsen said Norwegians may choose now, whether 
to take its welfare gains out in more free time, or support 
nation building in other countries. 
He said he believes Norway should contribute 
internationally, and that it has learned many lessons that 
are worth sharing. 
As an example, there was an obesity problem among 
Scatec Solar employees in South Africa. The company 
made sugary drinks and sweets unavailable in the office. 
We should not underestimate Norway´s possibility to make 
a difference via knowledge sharing with partners abroad, 
Dr. Osmundsen said. 
 
                  

                      21.
                    Innovation and trust 
In closing, as no questions were received from the 
audience, Mr. Wold asked the speakers if they had 
any final remarks about change that needs to 
happen. Dr. Tønnesson asked researchers to embrace 
innovation and stop using old-fashioned footnotes in 
articles and books, as a simple web link will do. 
Dr. Fimreite stressed the continued need for trust in 
society. - Trust is the glue that keeps us together, she 
said. She worried that increased surveillance may 
impel a society to terrorize itself via too much 
meddling into the private sphere. 
 
                  

                      22.
                    Researchers: 
Join the debate! 
- Many talented researchers in Norway are not participating in 
public debate, Dr. Osmundsen said. - There is too much focus 
and reward for traditional peer-reviewed publishing where a 
piece may be read by only a dozen people. He called for firm 
demands that all researchers not only publish, but engage in 
blogging and media discussions as well. 
Dr. Ulltveit-Moe said she worries about the future. Even though 
globalization is making the world seem smaller, we may head in 
the opposite direction. Confrontation and isolation appear to be 
on the increase, as demonstrated in the Middle East. Openness 
to trade and cooperation is changing because people believe it 
does not benefit them. We need to understand what is 
happening around us, she concluded. 
Mr. Wold urged participants to take some optimism with them as 
well, and thanked the speakers for their contributions. 
 
                  

                      23.
                    Port by Norwegian Research 
Council at Lysaker, Oslo 
Summary by Gry Tina Tinde, Section for Research, Innovation and Higher Education, Norad 

                  











English
Français
Español
Português (Brasil)
Deutsch






About
Careers
Developers & API
Press
Blog
Terms
Privacy
Copyright
Support
Contact





Linkedin
Twitter
Google Plus
Facebook
RSS Feeds
LinkedIn Corporation © 2014









