Infotainment: #Ebola: New Case Reported In Port Harcourt.Infotainment: #Ebola: New Case Reported In Port Harcourt.





























































Infotainment



NEWS * INFORMATION * OPINIONS * SPORTS* ENTERTAINMENT * MOTIVATIONAL TIPS * HEALTH TIPS*


























































































Thursday, August 28








#Ebola: New Case Reported In Port Harcourt.













It's been reported that a doctor, who secretly
treated a diplomat who had contact with the late Liberian-American
Patrick Sawyer, has died of Ebola in Rivers State..



The doctor died on Friday.  Also His wife has  taken ill and has been
quarantined in Port Harcourt. Interestingly, the diplomat the doctor treated is
still alive.



The diplomat, who was
part of the team who met with Patrick Sawyer in Lagos, flew to Port Harcourt,
Rivers State for treatment, evading Nigerian federal government surveillance
for the disease. The late doctor then took him to a hotel for treatment.



As a result of this,
70 people have been quarantined. The doctor's hospital, Good Heart Hospital in
Rivers State, has been shut down. The unnamed hotel, where the secret treatment
took place, has also been shut down.



The Minister of Health
and the Rivers State government are expected to make a statement on the
incident later.



Source: Sahara reporters





Posted by



tia ajayi




at

07:06
















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest












No comments:







Post a Comment
























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










Want to share news and information, contact me :

E : tiaajayi@gmail.com.











Search This Blog


Loading...













My Blog List










Welcome to Linda Ikeji's Blog




1st set of winners win kitchen makeovers courtesy of Kate Henshaw


                      -
                    


Here you have it, the first set of winners of ‘Time out with Kate DVD’ 
promo have emerged. The prize presentation held last Friday at Ebeano 
Supermarket L...












Stella Dimoko Korkus / Gossip...It Only Happens Here!




President Jonathan's 7 Ministers Resign To Pursue Their Political Ambitions


                      -
                    

Barr. Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Onyebuchi Chukwu (Ebonyi), Musiliu Obanikoro 
(Lagos), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Emeka Wogu (Abia), 
Labaran ...












MojiDelano's Blog




Nollywood Stars Storm Port Harcourt For BON Awards


                      -
                    


It is yet one day to the 2014 edition of the Best of Nollywood Awards 
holding Thursday, October 16th, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, but the 
excitement a...












news360ng.com




"Pastor Chris Okotie Has Many Women"  Check Out Okotie's Reply To CAN


                      -
                    



Pastor Chris Okotie has replied the leadership of CAN who recently 
questioned his credibility as a Pastor and Christian after he asked for the 
resignatio...












MetroLens | Reliably Informative




The original Girlie O: Meet Patoranking’s sexy girlfriend (PHOTOS)


                      -
                    

Patoranking has unveiled the original ‘girlie o’, and yes, she’s very sexy 
and extremely hot. The dancehall star celebrated her on his Instagram page, 
wish...












Ayo Sogunro's Chaise




Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB | Love Letter from Ayo Sogunro


                      -
                    

Dearest Linda Ikeji, Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB Permit me 
the indulgence of a few …

Continue reading →


















About Me





tia ajayi




Tia is a cool young lady, conservative by nature. Passionate about Nigeria and liberal to different cultures, open minded and a football lover.

View my complete profile













































Popular Posts









BIZZARE: Bird Turns To Woman In Lagos After Colliding With Electric Wire.
    A bird reportedly turned into a woman this afternoon at  G-cappa Estate area of Ilupeju, Lagos,eyewitnesses at the scene, said  the bird...










HIV+ transsexual claims she had oral sex with O.J. Simpson in prison
    .         Jazmena Jameson, a former prostitute who is a transsexual and even said  to be HIV positive has claimed to having had  oral se...










Liberian Man That Took Ebola To US Dies..
            Thomas Eric Duncan,  the man with the first case of Ebola in the United States died yesterday, his health took a grave turn for ...










#Ebola: Health Worker In volved In Care Of US Index Case Infected.
        A health worker who helped in the treatment of Liberian man, Thomas Eric Duncan, who died on Wednesday October 8th, at the Texas Hea...










Kcee Calls Out Tiwa Savage To Respond To Marriage Crisis Rumours
        There has over the past few weeks been reports online that Mavin first lady Tiwa Savage was experiencing a marriage crisis and so fa...










Ex-Governor Alamieyeseigha's Son Found Dead In Dubai.
        Ex-Governor of Bayelsa state, Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, has lost one of his sons, Oyoms, in Dubai, United Arab Emirate accordin...










Group Drags President Jonathan And CAN President Ayo Oritsejafor To Court Over $9.3m Arms Deal.
                    A group led by Dr Saidu Ahmed Dukawa, have dragged  President Goodluck Jonathan and the Christian Association of Nigeria...










Taliban Ambush Afghan Security Forces, Killing 14....
    Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan have killed at least 22 security force members in an ambush in Sar-e-Pol province north of Kabul, offi...










Top Pastor Arrested For Impregnating Member And Sponsoring An Abortion.
      A pastor in Enugu State has been arrested for allegedly impregnating a female member of his ministry and went a step further to force ...










PDP Stalwarts Beg Olusegun Obasanjo To Forgive Them.
         For anyone that's still in doubt, well PDP has confirmed what we all know, which is that ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo is no s...















Videos


Loading...













Google+ Badge



Blog Archive




Blog Archive
October (82)
September (179)
August (204)
July (240)
June (244)
May (270)
April (13)
March (39)
February (5)














You are number























































Oluwatosin Ajayi. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by molotovcoketail. Powered by Blogger.


































