CDC warns universities to prepare for Ebola pandemic - NaturalNews.comCDC warns universities to prepare for Ebola pandemic - NaturalNews.com






Español      Mobile Site

Home      Subscribe
(free)      About
NaturalNews      Contact
Us      Write
for NaturalNews      Media
Info      Advertising
Info











































CDC endangering America
Five Ebola lies
Top 10 Ebola preps to do NOW
Nature's antivirals revealed
CDC scientist confesses to vaccine fraud


































CDC warns universities to prepare for Ebola pandemic

Sunday, September 21, 2014 by: L.J. Devon, Staff WriterTags: Ebola, pandemic, CDC










Most Viewed Articles

Today | Week | Month | Year

The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Shock W.H.O. report: Ebola has 42-day incubation period, not 21 days!
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
WHO finally admits sneezing and coughing can spread Ebola
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Huh? Ebola vaccine not being tested against Ebola
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
How to construct an emergency Ebola isolation room in your own home after the hospitals are overrun
Amaranth: a gluten-free grain rich in protein and minerals
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
NIH pushing to vaccinate entire countries with Ebola vaccine
Dry skin brushing can strengthen immunity, spark detoxification and reverse the hands of time
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Three medicinal mushrooms that are proven to fight disease
FDA approves experimental use of antiviral drug for Ebola, but still won't allow testing with colloidal silver or Echinacea



The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
Ebola spreads in Dallas hospital as health worker contracts deadly virus; CDC blames victim
Top herbs to help cleanse lungs, make breathing easier
Flu shot facts for those considering the vaccinations
CDC now endangering all Americans by pushing five irresponsible assumptions about Ebola transmission
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Health Ranger to launch revolutionary EMP-proof technology delivering sustainability breakthroughs for food, water, nutrition and medicine
The real Ebola risk to the USA is from uncontrolled outbreaks in Central and South America, not direct flights from Africa
The candida depression connection - How yeast leads to depression, anxiety, ADHD, and other mental disorders
Mathematics of the Ebola outbreak reveal near-impossibility of global containment: it's already too late
Official: Fleas in Arizona testing positive for plague
Packs of wild dogs spread Ebola after eating corpses
Have 'FEMA coffins' been stockpiled to meet CDC requirements for disposing of bodies during a pandemic?
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Move over white noise: pink noise may help people sleep more soundly



The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
Water rationing hits California: limit of 50 gallons per person per day or face fines of $500
Russia completes dry run of nuclear bombing attack on America
Do these ten pieces of evidence prove the U.S. government is actively encouraging an Ebola outbreak in America?
The best way to help your body protect itself against Ebola (or any virus or bacteria)
Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?
Governments seize colloidal silver being used to treat Ebola patients, says advocate
U.S. government openly admits vaccines are seriously harming children: see the email
Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'
Illegal Immigrants get free education, housing and healthcare for crossing border; Americans get $5,000 fine
W.H.O. contradicts CDC, admits Ebola can spread via coughing, sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces
It's all scripted! Ebola outbreak and impossibly rapid vaccine response clearly scripted; U.S. govt. patented Ebola in 2010 and now owns all victims' blood
Bullet proof immune system - how to not get a cold ever
Pandemic Preparedness: The world's most powerful antiviral herbs and natural medicines revealed in free audio recording
FDA threatens three companies with criminal charges for making Ebola treatment claims (but won't test natural substances against Ebola)
Did Johanna Budwig really cure cancer naturally?
Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine



Six important facts you're not being told about lost Malaysia Airlines Flight 370
The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media
The lemon detox diet - a recipe that really works
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 now clearly a government cover-up: All evidence contradicts official story
10 health benefits of cucumbers
Why Walmart and Costco shrimp prices are so low - and why you should never buy from them again
Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property
Vitamin D deficiency symptoms explained: the top 9 warning signs
Six signs you might have gluten sensitivity and not know it
Does green tea have caffeine?  Seven things you need to know
Top six alkaline foods to eat every day for vibrant health
Top ten things you need to do NOW to protect yourself from an uncontrolled Ebola outbreak
What the media isn't telling you about Elliott Rodger, the psycho killer who murdered six in a soulless rampage
Flight 370 passengers may still be alive; 'pirated' Boeing 777 may return to skies as stealth nuclear weapon
Plants won't grow near Wi-Fi routers, experiment finds
10 other companies that use the same Subway yoga mat chemical in their buns
Boost Low White Blood Cell Count and Immune Function Naturally


Popular on Facebook










The five biggest lies about Ebola being pushed by government and mass media






White House admits staging fake vaccination operation to gather DNA from the public






Why does the CDC own a patent on Ebola 'invention?'






EXCLUSIVE: Natural News tests flu vaccine for heavy metals, finds 25,000 times higher mercury level than EPA limit for water






Ultraviolet light robot kills Ebola in two minutes; why doesn't every hospital have one of these?






Irrefutable proof we are all being sprayed with poison: 571 tons of toxic lead 'chemtrailed' into America's skies every year






Truvia sweetener a powerful pesticide; scientists shocked as fruit flies die in less than a week from eating GMO-derived erythritol






Russia taking McDonald's to court, threatens countrywide shutdown






Senator who attacked Doctor Oz over dietary supplements received over $146,000 in campaign contributions from Big Pharma mega-retailer and Monsanto






Global warming data FAKED by government to fit climate change fictions






Oregon man serving prison sentence for collecting rainwater on his own property






Healthy 12-year-old girl dies shortly after receiving HPV vaccine






HOAX confirmed: Michelle Obama 'GMOs for children' campaign a parody of modern agricultural politics






Ebola outbreak may already be uncontrollable; Monsanto invests in Ebola treatment drug company as pandemic spreads






Ben & Jerry's switches to non-GMO, Fair Trade ice cream ingredients






Elliot Rodger, like nearly all young killers, was taking psychiatric drugs (Xanax)






BREAKING: CDC whistleblower confesses to MMR vaccine research fraud in historic public statement






Right to farm being stripped from Americans: Michigan to criminalize small family farms with chickens, goats, honey bees and more





















Tweet


Pin It




















(NaturalNews) American colleges and universities are now on high alert and are being instructed to take extra precautions against the potential spread of incoming Ebola. Students traveling abroad to Ebola-stricken countries like Liberia, Guinea, Nigeria or Sierra Leone run the risk of bringing the virus back to US campuses. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) is now urging all US colleges to implement additional safety measures to prevent accidental spread of Ebola.CDC officials are encouraging university staff members to ask returning students important questions about possible symptoms, including suspicious fever, body aches, headaches, diarrhea, unexplained bleeding and bruising. Any student returning from an Ebola-stricken country within the past 21 days is to be closely monitored upon returning to the US. (Ebola has a maximum incubation period of 21 days before symptoms appear.)The CDC is even instructing students to monitor their temperature twice daily for a 21-day period, regardless of their symptoms. The CDC is essentially warning universities to prepare for a potential Ebola pandemic."If a student, faculty, or staff member has had a high- or low-risk exposure, state or local public health authorities should be notified, and school officials should consult with public health authorities for guidance about how that person should be monitored," the CDC advises.The CDC instructs any student with a fever of 101.5°F or higher to seek immediate medical care, while warning the hospital and doctors beforehand for special safety preparations. Students are also advised not to take public transportation within a 21-day period.The countries most affected by Ebola outbreaks, Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, send nearly 400 students each year to American colleges and universities. Nigeria sends an additional 7,000 students yearly.Is America's medical system better equipped to handle Ebola outbreak?In a recent interview with The New York Times, Robert Winfield, the University of Michigan's Chief Health Officer, stated, "We're walking a line of trying to be vigilant and have a safe environment, without raising the kind of alarm that would unnecessarily escalate the stigma and isolation of people." So far, no cases of Ebola have been isolated.Epidemiology Professor Eden Wells, associate director of the University's Preventive Medicine Residency Program, commented, "Yes, we probably will have someone arrive on a plane (with Ebola). But we have a public health system in place that we could immediately isolate the patient and quarantine anyone who was exposed, and that's been quite effective. So we would not see the spread or the problems that we've seen in this area."Professor Wells believes that US officials will use quarantine to prevent outbreaks as large as the ones seen in West Africa, where over 2,000 people have died."There's a lot of fear. When the locals are becoming ill, they are returning to their villages and places they feel comfortable. Unfortunately, that can lead to spread." Wells believes that during an outbreak it's better to register for treatment and not be scared of medical quarantine. He points out that the four cases of Ebola treated in the US have been successful, allowing two patients to return to their normal lives.America might be more susceptible to outbreak than experts thinkIf an outbreak were to spread from a US university, a peaceful quarantine could turn into a state of martial law. Entire campuses could be locked down like what's going on in villages in Liberia. Pictures show armed guards keeping people from accessing nearby airports.In the US, the National Guard may be called in to enforce boundaries and restrict travel, as the federal government takes over, dispersing hazmat suits that they recently obtained by the hundreds of thousands.At this point, it may be even more dangerous to be registered for medical treatment. Americans would quickly respond in fear and panic. Non-infected and suspected persons could be misdiagnosed and thrown into quarantine zones where they then get the virus from those who are infected. Along with that, hospitals in America are already brimming with patients. If an outbreak started like it did in West Africa, America wouldn't be any better equipped to face the problem. If anything, the immune-system-suppressed general population in the US, living on processed and fast foods, would be more susceptible to the wrath of a viral pandemic.Learn all these details and more at the FREE online Pandemic Preparedness course at www.BioDefense.comSources:http://www.michigandaily.comhttp://www.nytimes.comhttp://wwwnc.cdc.govhttp://science.naturalnews.com













Join over four million monthly readers. Your privacy is protected. Unsubscribe at any time.





More news on Ebola
Ebola outbreak may already be uncontrollable; Monsanto invests in Ebola treatment drug company as pandemic spreadsEbola conspiracy theories abound: GMO bioweapon? DoD experiment gone wrong? Five incredible theories exploredIt's all scripted! Ebola outbreak and impossibly rapid vaccine response clearly scripted; U.S. govt. patented Ebola in 2010 and now owns all victims' bloodFDA, mainstream media denounce nano silver as 'bogus cure' for Ebola virusFDA threatens three companies with criminal charges for making Ebola treatment claims (but won't test natural substances against Ebola)Ebola transmission by aerosols confirmed: virus survives for days outside infected hostsTwenty-one questions about Ebola: government propaganda, medical corruption and bioweapons experiments













Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus


Take Action: Support NaturalNews.com by linking back to this article from your website

Permalink to this article:
http://www.naturalnews.com/046960_Ebola_pandemic_CDC.html

Embed article link: (copy HTML code below):
CDC warns universities to prepare for Ebola pandemic

Reprinting this article:
Non-commercial use OK, cite NaturalNews.com with clickable link.

Follow Natural News on Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus, and Pinterest






























Advertise with NaturalNews...








Support NaturalNews Sponsors:





















Advertise with NaturalNews...





















GET SHOW DETAILS+ a FREE GIFT































NaturalNews.com

Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
About Us
Contact Us/Feedback
Write for Natural News
Media Information
Advertise Information


Follow Us

Email Newsletter
Facebook
Twitter
Google
Pinterest
YouTube
Diaspora
Seen
RSS


















This site is part of the Natural News Network © 2014 All Rights Reserved. Privacy | Terms All content posted on this site is commentary or opinion and is protected under Free Speech. Truth Publishing International, LTD. is not responsible for content written by contributing authors. The information on this site is provided for educational and entertainment purposes only. It is not intended as a substitute for professional advice of any kind. Truth Publishing assumes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this material. Your use of this website indicates your agreement to these terms and those published here. All trademarks, registered trademarks and servicemarks mentioned on this site are the property of their respective owners. 





































Sign up for the FREE Natural News Email Newsletter

Receive breaking news on GMOs, vaccines, fluoride, radiation protection, natural cures, food safety alerts and interviews with 
the world's top experts on natural health and more.

Join over 7 million monthly readers of NaturalNews.com, the internet's No. 1 natural health news site. (Source: Alexa.com)

Your email address *





Please enter the code you see above*




No Thanks

Already have it and love it!

Natural News supports and helps fund these organizations:




* Required. Once you click submit, we will send you an email asking you to confirm your free registration.
Your privacy is assured and your information is kept confidential. You may unsubscribe at anytime.










