CDC warns 500,000 will be infected with Ebola by January, page 1CDC warns 500,000 will be infected with Ebola by January, page 1











video
top
new
live
archive
recent
forums
join login 
 

top
hot
new
archive
messages
account
members
profile
subscriptions
complain
upload
chat
live
hose
login 











 CDC warns 500,000 will be infected with Ebola by Januarypage: 1   36   2  3  4 >>log injoin     soficrow    +11 more 		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 08:23 AM				link       
EBOLA will claim 6800 new victims this month. By January, the number infected could soar to 500,000, the Centre for Disease Control warns. 

The startling new estimates, reported in the Washington Post today and due to be released later this week, is a vast increase over World Health
Organisation estimates released last month which said up to 20,000 would be exposed before ebola was controlled. 

A study published in PLoS Outbreaks on Friday states mass quarantine efforts appear to have made the outbreak worse. 


 
CDC warns 500,000 will be infected with Ebola by January as effort to contain the virus fail 

Science, research and history show that quarantine does not stop epidemics - especially for animal borne diseases. On the other hand, science,
research and history DO show that isolating patients, tracing contacts and monitoring DOES stop epidemics. But for some stupid reason, ignorant
uneducated and scientifically illiterate politicians go for quarantine. Why? ...Because it proves they're "doing something" while they pocket the
cash? Who knows. But equally ignorant, uneducated science illiterates buy their bs. Unfortunately, popular opinion doesn't stop epidemics either.

 
1) quarantine has been historically used to discriminate against minorities;  
2) studies demonstrate that mass
quarantine is ineffective; 
3) a large scale quarantine would be difficult to implement. 
 
An outbreak should meet the following three criteria for quarantine to be a useful
measure of disease control: 

* people likely to be incubating the infection must be efficiently and effectively identified; 
* those people must comply with the conditions of quarantine; and 
* the infectious disease in question must be transmissible in its presymptomatic or early symptomatic stages. 

The use of quarantine in the Toronto (SARS) outbreak failed on all three counts. 
 

 ETA also NOTE: 

“There may be other reasons for the worsening of the outbreak spread, including the possibility that the virus has become more transmissible,
but it’s also possible that the quarantine control efforts actually made the outbreak spread more quickly by crowding people together in unsanitary
conditions,” research professor Sherry Towers of Arizona State University wrote. 

The study also reports that the risk of international spread has increased because the African outbreak has spread to densely populated
areas. 
 

Link to research paper: 

T
emporal Variations in the Effective Reproduction Number of the 2014 West Africa Ebola Outbreak 

……If effective control measures are not put in place, and the current rate of exponential rise of new cases continues, we predict 4400 new Ebola
cases in West Africa during the last half of the month of September, with an upper 95% confidence level of 6800 new cases. 

…..The temporal patterns we observe may thus partly be due to variations in surveillance during the outbreak, under-reporting, and/or reporting
delays. In addition, serial passage of the disease as the outbreak progresses may be leading to increased pathogenicity, and a subsequent increasingly
larger rate of increase in case counts . However, it also must be considered that otherwise well intentioned attempts at intervention may in fact be
making the situation worse, at least in some regions…. 

…….Our analysis indicates that the spread of the disease to densely populated cities, and/or the imposition of cordons sanitaire
(quarantine) in West Africa may have accelerated the spread of the disease in some regions. 
 









edit on 21/9/14 by soficrow because: (no reason given)            727Sky    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 08:29 AM				link     				The way they tried the latest quarantine certainly did nothing but spread the disease. Being locked down with no food and possibly no water is stupid.
Welcome to HELL.				      ATF1886    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 09:10 AM				link     				S&F as always yea im stocking up on nano silver vitamin c oregeno oil i have a feeling its going to spread to four corners of the earth. I wonder how
many times its going to mutate before it gets to the states hopefully it doesnt evolve to super virus...does any one know if it can survive in cold
weather???edit on 21-9-2014 by ATF1886 because: (no reason given)edit on 21-9-2014 by ATF1886 because: (no reason
given)       soficrow    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 09:20 AM				link     				a reply to: 727Sky 

As I reported earlier one plan is to distribute home healthcare kits so people can
care for loved ones at home. Doctors Without Borders (MSF) recommends turning existent public spaces into secure treatment centers to house the sick -
to isolate (not quarantine) the sick. ....This means having the manpower/resources to test huge numbers of people, plus accurate rapid
tests. 

...[French NGO Doctors Without Borders (MSF)] has said, "We don't need a lot of fancy hospitals.
What we need is to turn every single stadium and
sports arena into a secure location that people cannot escape from, put cots in there, [provide] shade and protection from the rain, bring all
the infected people into these spaces, and give them what little care we can." It's not a bad idea. The notion that we are going to build enough
hospitals at the pace that we're going, to keep up with the spread, is absolute nonsense. 
       soficrow    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 09:43 AM				link      WANTED: Doctors and Care Centers 

Sierra Leone starts nationwide lockdown to stop spread of
Ebola 

….aid agency Médecins Sans Frontières, also known as Doctors Without Borders, said the lockdown is unlikely to stop the spread of the
disease. 

…."It will be extremely difficult for health workers to accurately identify cases through door-to-door screenings as this requires a certain
level of expertise," the group said. "And when cases are identified, there will not be enough Ebola management centers to care for
them." 
 
To stop Ebola killing thousands more, we need doctors who are willing to put their lives on the line 

....Today, the emergency is the Ebola plague, and according to Joanne Liu, the organisation’s president, the international response so far has
been “lethally inadequate". 

…..(MSF) is urgently seeking to recruit medical professionals to bolster its teams in the field. 
 
Ebola: MSF Presentation to UN
Security Council 
September 18, 2014 

….Right now, as I speak, people are sitting at the gates of our centers, literally begging for their lives.  They rightly feel alone, neglected,
denied –left to die a horrible, undignified death. 

We are failing the sick because there is not enough help on the ground.  And we are failing those who will inevitably become infected, because we
cannot care properly for the sick in safe, protected environments and prevent the spread of the virus. 

….We need what is referred to as contact tracing, to follow up every person who has been in contact with someone who is sick with Ebola or has died
from the virus. We need to raise awareness about this disease, because there has been so much denial, even now, and despite the international
attention. 

We need more care centers, so that everyone can find a bed and not have to stay at home and risk infecting their families.  We need to get our
medical staff trained in proper procedures so they can keep the centers running.  We also need to get health services running, and to make sure that
it is safe for health staff to go to work. We have seen too many health workers and ambulance drivers come into our centers as patients, facing the
same fate. 

So please send your helicopters, your centers, your beds, and your expert personnel.  But know that we also need the basics. There are still homes in
Monrovia that do not have soap, water, and buckets. Even these simple things could help curb the spread of the virus.    
 






edit on 21/9/14 by soficrow because: (no reason given)       intrptr    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 09:45 AM				link     				a reply to: ATF1886 

does any one know if it can survive in cold weather??? 
It survives inside the host. Potentially it could spread to colder climes transferring from host to host. 

Lots more difficult though. Although places like Alaska have zillions of biting insects there is a cold season that interrupts the cycle of living
things. 

In the tropics there are but two seasons; Hot and wet. The well of hosts (like bugs) is year round producing  and transmitting contagion.				       soficrow    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 09:52 AM				link     				a reply to: intrptr 

Erm. From the Ebolavirus "PATHOGEN SAFETY DATA SHEET" from the Public Health Agency of Canada: 

SURVIVAL OUTSIDE HOST: Filoviruses have been reported capable to survive for
weeks in blood and can also survive on contaminated surfaces, particularly at low temperatures (4°C).... When dried in tissue culture media
onto glass and stored at 4 °C, Zaire ebolavirus survived for over 50 days Footnote 61. This information is based on experimental findings only and
not based on observations in nature. This information is intended to be used to support local risk assessments in a laboratory setting. 
       ATF1886    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:01 AM				link     				Antartica here i come!!!a reply to: intrptr 

       intrptr    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:04 AM				link     				a reply to: soficrow 

Thanks for adding the disclaimer. I did say it was  "lots more difficult" for viruses to spread in colder climes, not impossible. 

Scary factoid, though. Since viruses readily adapt, who knows how many strains there may be in a year?				      crazyewok    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:06 AM				link      originally posted by: ATF1886 
S&F as always yea im stocking up on nano silver vitamin c oregeno oil  

Dont buy the snake oil BS 

That wont but a dent in a Ebola infection.				      soficrow    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:06 AM				link     				a reply to: ATF1886 
Antartica here i come!!! 
 

Bad idea. Ebola can survive in dried blood and on contaminated surfaces - particularly at low temperatures - sometimes more than 50 days. As posted
above: 

SURVIVAL OUTSIDE HOST: Filoviruses have been reported capable to survive for
weeks in blood and can also survive on contaminated surfaces, particularly at low temperatures (4°C)....  When dried in tissue culture media
onto glass and stored at 4 °C, Zaire ebolavirus survived for over 50 days Footnote 61. This information is based on experimental findings only
and not based on observations in nature. This information is intended to be used to support local risk assessments in a laboratory setting. 
       ATF1886    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:09 AM				link     				Sorry for the humor iust trying to cheer up a bit a reply to: soficrow 

    


    intrptr    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:09 AM				link     				a reply to: ATF1886 

Antartica here i come!!! 
Lol, proably a safe bet. Of course the cold is much more lethal than Ebola. It is airborne, transfers thorough heavy clothing and walls, and can kill
in minutes. 

If it gets that bad, I prefer a small tropical Island. Like a cruise ship. What do they cost nowadays, with crew?edit on 21-9-2014 by intrptr
because: bb code       WeAre0ne    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:10 AM				link     				Stay in the light people...edit on 21-9-2014 by WeAre0ne
because: (no reason given)       soficrow    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:10 AM				link      originally posted by: intrptr 
a reply to: soficrow 

Thanks for adding the disclaimer. I did say it was  "lots more difficult" for viruses to spread in colder climes, not impossible. 

Scary factoid, though. Since viruses readily adapt, who knows how many strains there may be in a year? 

 

Flu spreads best in cold weather (flu season is winter in all hemispheres). ....Hate to think Ebola might too. ....If this does infect 500,000, we'll
have new mutations up the wazoo. And who knows what that might bring.				      jhn7537    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:11 AM				link     				So, if the CDC is right and it does hit 500,000 cases come January, how are they planning on fixing this issue?  Obviously, they are struggling
greatly right now trying to contain this, so if the figure does climb to 500,000 in January, who's to say it doesn't his 10 million come June of
that year, then 100 million the following January... I would just like to know what the CDC and WHO are doing to fix this.. It's not like this is the
first time we've seen Ebola before..				      ATF1886    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:11 AM				link     				So then an ice cold heineken will work just as well theres gotta be sumtin out there??? a reply to: crazyewok       opethPA    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:12 AM				link     				Really, that is some good MSM style reporting...  

"By January, the number infected could soar to 500,000, "  

The title of this post is  

"CDC warns 500,000 will be infected with Ebola by January"  


Since when did could become a definite ?  
Their is enough to worry about with things like Ebola, promoting fear doesnt help.				      ATF1886    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:14 AM				link     				Zombiepocolypse...a reply to: soficrow       intrptr    		posted on Sep, 21 2014 @ 10:17 AM				link     				a reply to: soficrow 

And who knows what that might bring? 
The Zombie hoard everyone is predicting? 

Ebola's victims develop red eyes and listless countenance. The virus inside them is undergoing extreme amplification and even though ever near death
the victim continues to wander about in a daze seeking someone to help them. All this effectively does is tend to spread the virus further. 

"Walking Dead" might be prophetic after all. 

Disclaimer: that last thought is a Hollywood one. Like Disney Land and Gaming it does not exist in the real world.				     



         new topics 

Nurse shouldnt have flown
Diseases and Pandemics: 2 minutes ago


11 Beds for Ebola patients in the US....total.....
Medical Issues & Conspiracies: 7 minutes ago


Why didn't Thomas Duncan receive Brantly's blood when the others have???
Diseases and Pandemics: 12 minutes ago


School Threatens To Call Police On Students Handing Out Constitutions
Social Issues and Civil Unrest: 13 minutes ago


George Noory Goes #OffTheGrid
Off The Grid: 14 minutes ago


Chairman of U.S. Joint Chiefs on Ebola: "I'm worried about it because we know so little" 
Diseases and Pandemics: 23 minutes ago


iPad of Satan
Science & Technology: 23 minutes ago


An interface between organic brains and quantum computers.
Science & Technology: 1 hours ago


Jay Weidner on our hidden history.
Ancient & Lost Civilizations: 1 hours ago


I spoke with ninety members of the House and Senate about what's gone so wrong in Congress.
Breaking Political News: 1 hours ago
 



   top topics 

A second Health care worker in Dallas diagnosed with Ebola
Diseases and Pandemics: 10 hours ago, 51 flags


Ebola patient was on flight from Cleveland to Dallas!
Diseases and Pandemics: 3 hours ago, 25 flags


Lockheed says makes breakthrough on Fusion Energy project
Breaking Alternative News: 5 hours ago, 22 flags


Revisiting Unknown Alien Message "Do You Wish That We Show Up" & Dr. Carol Rosin's Warning
Aliens and UFOs: 15 hours ago, 21 flags


Ebola. Military is getting prepared for apocalyptic training. 
The Gray Area: 3 hours ago, 17 flags


2014 - 666 years = the year 1348 and the Black Death (Ebola-like) spreading in Europe
Diseases and Pandemics: 2 hours ago, 17 flags


Man Won't Take Down Obama Tombstone
Political Mud-Pit: 17 hours ago, 16 flags


1,500 Pastors Defy IRS Ban on Preaching Politics
Conspiracies in Religions: 5 hours ago, 15 flags


UK decision to recognize Palestine angers Israel
Middle East Issues: 10 hours ago, 15 flags


Nephews Who Are Army Officers Recently Asked "Are You Prepared To Kill US Citizens?"
The Gray Area: 3 hours ago, 13 flags
 



   active topics 

Chairman of U.S. Joint Chiefs on Ebola: "I'm worried about it because we know so little" 
Diseases and Pandemics • 4 • : kosmicjack


An interface between organic brains and quantum computers.
Science & Technology • 11 • : tetra50


2nd Texas health worker with Ebola  - will be moved to Atlanta
Diseases and Pandemics • 29 • : TDawgRex


Pat Robertson: Hollywood is going to force us to watch homosexuals until Jesus comes back
Conspiracies in Religions • 29 • : Klassified


Ebola patient was on flight from Cleveland to Dallas!
Diseases and Pandemics • 213 • : Jansy


Nephews Who Are Army Officers Recently Asked "Are You Prepared To Kill US Citizens?"
The Gray Area • 56 • : CharlieSpeirs


16 Members of Doctors Without Borders Infected with Ebola, Nine Dead
Diseases and Pandemics • 7 • : LukeDAP


Why minimum wage jobs are bad 
Global Meltdown • 120 • : SomePeople


Hallowen Horror/Scary Movie Recommendations & Suggestions
Movies • 50 • : yeahright


A second Health care worker in Dallas diagnosed with Ebola
Diseases and Pandemics • 339 • : Quantum_Squirrel
     36   2  3  4 >>log injoin



join ATS
ATS stats
advertising on ATS
contact ATS

about ATS
privacy policy
terms & conditions
using our content
DMCA procedure


ATS home
ATS forums
top topics
hot topics
recent posts
new topics

The Above Top Secret Web site is a wholly owned social content community of The Above Network, LLC.

This content community relies on user-generated content from our member contributors. The opinions of our members are not those of site ownership who maintains strict editorial agnosticism and simply provides a collaborative venue for free expression. 
All content copyright 2014, The Above Network, LLC.


 









