
ECOWAS official who recieved Liberian, Patrick Sawyer, dies of Ebola in Lagos | Nigeria News. Your Nigerian Online News Source: Nigerianeye.com

ECOWAS official who recieved Liberian, Patrick Sawyer, dies of Ebola in Lagos | Nigeria News. Your Nigerian Online News Source: Nigerianeye.com




Menu

About
Contact
More

Menu 1
Menu 2
Menu 3
Menu 4


Menu



twitter
facebook
google
rss
linkedin
dribbble
pinterest

































Menu

Home
About
Sports
Entertainment

Music
Lifestyle
Fashion


Metro
World Update
Opinion
Videos
Latest News

Latest News in Nigeria
World Update

Nigerians in Diaspora








Search
















Home
 » 


Latest News in Nigeria

 » ECOWAS official who recieved Liberian, Patrick Sawyer, dies of Ebola in Lagos








ECOWAS official who recieved Liberian, Patrick Sawyer, dies of Ebola in Lagos







Wednesday, August 13, 2014





1





Latest News in Nigeria










A+
A-


Print
Email
















Economic Community of West African States [ECOWAS] has announced the death of one of its staff, Jatto Abdulqudir, who died of the dreaded Ebola virus.

“Mr Abdulqudir, a protocol assistant, was among those who assisted the Liberian delegate to a regional meeting Mr Patrick Sawyer, who died from the Ebola Virus Disease at a Lagos hospital on 25th July 2014.”
The death of the ECOWAS official has now brought to three the number of people who died of Ebola in Nigeria.



The first two were Mr. Sawyer, who brought the Ebola virus into Nigeria, and one of the nurses who treated him at the First Consultant Hospital in Lagos.

Sawyer was to have attended an ECOWAS meeting and Abdulqudir escorted him to hospital in the Ikoyi neighbourhood from Lagos airport, where he arrived on a flight from Monrovia via the Togolese capital, Lome

Read ECOWAS full statement on the passing of the late Mr. Abdulqudir below.


“The ECOWAS Commission announces with deep regret the passing of a staff member of its Lagos Liaison Office, Mr. Jatto Asihu Abdulqudir, aged 36.


“Mr. Abdulqudir, a Protocol Assistant, was among those who assisted the Liberian delegate to a regional meeting Mr. Patrick Sawyer, who died from the Ebola Virus Disease at a Lagos hospital on 25th July 2014.


“Mr. Abdulqudir had been under quarantine following that sad incident.


“The Commission wishes to use this opportunity to express its gratitude to Nigerian government authorities and others who contributed to managing the late official while under quarantine. The Management of the Commission wishes to commiserate with Mr. Abdulqudir’s family and colleagues and prays for the repose of his soul.


“Before this sad event, the Commission working in collaboration with Nigerian health authorities, had disinfected all the facilities of the ECOWAS Lagos Liaison Office as part of precautionary measures to safeguard the health, safety and security of staff members, and will continue to monitor the situation.


“Management has also intensified awareness campaign among staff on the deadly virus and uses this opportunity to invoke the spirit of solidarity and mutual assistance.
“The Commission wishes to reassure staff of all Community Institutions all over the entire region that it is taking all necessary steps to guarantee their health and safety.


“Furthermore, Management enjoins all staff members and community citizens in general to intensify the observance of personal hygiene. They should also report any suspected case to health facilities and seek medical advice or attention for the effective containment and defeat of the Ebola disease.


“On the directive of regional leaders, ECOWAS has already set up a Solidarity Fund to fight the disease and has solicited the support  contribution of Member States and development partners to the Fund to rid the region of the virus.


“The ECOWAS Commission wishes to reiterate its continued commitment to support Member States in confronting this deadly virus.”




Share to:



















NextNewer Post
PreviousOlder Post








Post a Comment


Default
Disqus


nigerianeye
218168578325095





AnonymousAugust 13, 2014 at 7:55 AMI know mr patrik sawyer is already in hell fire because of this and...................ReplyDeleteAdd commentLoad more...






Comments are Moderated. Clean Comments will be swiftly approved. No swear words, no racism, allowed, Try commenting with Disqus------->





























Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)

























AD



















Populars
Comments
Archive




Archive




Archive
October (461)
September (994)
August (979)
July (908)
June (920)
May (912)
April (868)
March (852)
February (733)
January (851)
December (863)
November (862)
October (928)
September (898)
August (911)
July (942)
June (994)
May (1045)
April (972)
March (884)
February (658)
January (634)
December (541)
November (489)
October (480)
September (466)
August (431)
July (401)
June (382)
May (417)
April (340)
March (342)
February (290)
January (257)
December (172)
November (177)
October (121)
September (192)
August (283)
July (224)
June (211)
May (254)
April (207)
March (204)
February (97)
January (140)

































Comments
















Popular Posts









SHOCKING: Mysterious bird allegedly turns to woman in Oshodi
    There was drama around Oshodi axis in Lagos on Friday afternoon, as a mysterious bird allegedly crash-landed and turned to a woman.   Ac...










Alameiseigha’s son killed in Dubai
    Oyoms Alamieyesigha, a son of ex- Bayelsa State Governor, Diepriye Alameiseigha, is dead.   He was found dead in his father’s home in Du...










We only had one round of sex – Woman accused of killing 78-year-old during sex
     She is 30 years old but that did not stop her secret love affair with 78-year-old politician, Adedayo Deru. But on September 30, 2014, ...










Presidency finally opens up on controversial $15m Arms Deal
     The Presidency, yesterday, finally opened up on the controversy surrounding the seizure by South Africa of Nigeria’s $15m meant for the...










You don't need to beg me to help move Nigeria foward - Obasanjo tells Jonathan
       Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo returned from a trip to South Africa on Sunday and told President Goodluck Jonathan, Senate...










Vatican asks Catholic Church to welcome gays
      In a dramatic shift in tone, Catholic bishops released a document Monday saying that homosexuals had “gifts and qualities to offer” an...



























Free Updates to your Inbox









Follow us:








Subscribed to our daily newsletter but not receiving emails in your inbox? Click Here










































    Custom Search
  




























My Blog List










Nigerian Magazine




BBHotShots: Tayo swallows pride, shares emotional apology after brawl with JJ












Africa Eagle




CONFIRMED!: Second Texas Health Worker Tests Positive' For Ebola












Jobs in Nigeria




Halliburton recruiting Engineer.
























 

Popular Posts



SHOCKING: Mysterious bird allegedly turns to woman in Oshodi


Alameiseigha’s son killed in Dubai


We only had one round of sex – Woman accused of killing 78-year-old during sex


Presidency finally opens up on controversial $15m Arms Deal


You don't need to beg me to help move Nigeria foward - Obasanjo tells Jonathan


Vatican asks Catholic Church to welcome gays


SABOTAGE: Army Col, 10 officers set Nigerian tankers ablaze, pave way for Boko Haram


Sudan 1-0 Nigeria: Super Eagles unlikely to qualify for the 2015 Nations Cup


Please forgive us, PDP begs Obasanjo


Mysterious woman who allegedly turned into a bird in Lagos, dies in hospital






































Nigeria News. Your Nigerian Online News Source: Nigerianeye.com © 2013. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Blogger






Top








