Unknown disease kills three, diarrhoea kills 14 infants in Darfur  | Radio DabangaUnknown disease kills three, diarrhoea kills 14 infants in Darfur  | Radio Dabanga




 


Languages

English
العربية
 
 
 
 




Home
News
Audio
RadioFrequencies


ProgrammesAl- Jubraka
Hababkum Darfur
Ma Al Shebab
Ma Almwati
On the Scale


DossiersLeaders of Sudan
South Kordofan
Abyei
Doha: Opinions


Map
About usLinks
Post your ideas




 
 



 








 






Unknown disease kills three, diarrhoea kills 14 infants in Darfur 







                    GARSILA / KABKABIYA        






(







4 Sep 






.) -






Three people died of an unknown disease in the Garsila camps for the displaced in South Darfur. In the Kabkabiya camps, North Darfur, 14 infants died of diarrhoea during the past two weeks.
“On Monday afternoon, a number of people in the camp started to complain about a terrible headache. They began bleeding from the mouth too. On Tuesday, Hawa Ishag Ibrahim (35) suddenly fell dead from her donkey, while she was on her way back from her farmland”, a sheikh told Radio Dabanga from Jeddah camp.
“On the same day, Hawa Abu Shouk died after childbirth of the same symptoms, and on Wednesday a 12-year old student, Mohamed Salah, died.”
The sheikh demanded from the South Darfur State authorities and UN health agencies to access the area, conduct tests, and provide the required treatment.  
In the six Kabkabiya camps in North Darfur, 14 infants aged between one month to two years and a half, died within the past two weeks of diarrhoea and vomiting, a displaced informed Radio Dabanga.
“There are at least 100 other similar cases in the camps. The children are weak anyhow because of chronic malnutrition,” she said.
File photo: Malnourished, sick infants in a Darfur camp for the displaced (Unamid)
Related: Four die of mystery disease in West Darfur (27 August 2014)
 
 


















 






Search this site: 








 



News feed
Contact
Login


 

Latest broadcasts







play
pause



















 
 
 















 
 

Sudan on Twitter

Tweets about "#darfur OR #sudan OR #southsudan OR #sudanrevolts"

More tweets about Sudan 
 

Latest News





Darfur rebel leader Minawi sacks commanders




Rebels claim attack on Central Darfur military area




Sudan's lawyers demand Darfuri students' release




Farmer slain in East Jebel Marra, displaced shot in West Darfur




More than 100,000 South Sudanese refugees now in Sudan





    more news  

 
 
 
 




Disclaimer
Copyright
Site Info


 
 
 


