21 Days Without a Fever21 Days Without a Fever
































































21 Days Without a Fever


























Twenty-one days: the maximum incubation period for Ebola Virus Disease.  That means if you have come into contact with the virus but have no symptoms by day twenty two, then you are clear.Forty two days: the incubation period x 2, and the period it takes for a country to be officially considered clear of the disease.  If no new suspected cases are reported for 42 days, the outbreak is over.Today, Wednesday 13th August 2014, is a big day for me ... it has been twenty-one days since I left Liberia, and for the first time I know beyond a doubt that I am Ebola-free.  Not everyone is so lucky.  In my first 14 days of incubation in the comfort of my Southampton home, the number of cases in Liberia more than doubled from 249 on 23rd July to 554 on 6th August.  Of these cases, 294 people had died.  The country is in a state of emergency, schools are closed, roads are blocked, communities are quarantined and attempts to bring the disease under control are being crippled by widespread fear.So for another 21 days I am going to write a blog post every day to raise awareness of the grim challenge confronting Liberians, and to raise funds to support the Red Cross, who I work with collaboratively in my normal life as a PhD social researcher, and who are at the front line fighting the worst known Ebola outbreak in history.

















































































Friday, 5 September 2014








Epilogue






From the 13th of August until the 2nd September I wrote 21 blogs to raise awareness about the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, particularly Liberia - one for each day of the incubation period of the virus.  In the time I have been writing, the number of cases of Ebola in Liberia, and the number of deaths, has more than doubled.  There is a greater need than ever for people all over the world to join governments of affected countries, international organisations and NGOs in taking action against Ebola.


The Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea Red Cross Societies are among the best placed organisations to make a difference, as they are known and respected by local people, and supported by hundreds of local volunteers who work in their own communities.  They have put the majority of their usual programmes on hold in order to throw everything that they have got at the fight against Ebola, providing vital personal protective equipment for medical workers, conducting safe burials, raising awareness and changing attitudes towards Ebola in their communities.



If you have appreciated reading this blog, please can I urge you to join others who have gone a step further and made a donation to the Red Cross' Ebola outbreak appeal - simply CLICK HERE to link to my online giving page where you can make a donation easily and securely online.



Thank you so much for reading, for caring, and for giving.



Rachel Ayrton











Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

09:52



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Tuesday, 2 September 2014







A Liberian point of view







Something that I have noticed while monitoring the
Ebola outbreak in Liberia for the last 21 days, is that for all the ‘experts’
who are called upon to make public statements and reports, there is a distinct lack of West African voices.  People like
me can make suppositions about what everyday life is like for people living
with the threat and reality of Ebola in Liberia, but we can only truly understand
this by listening to Liberians who are experiencing the outbreak first hand.



I am honoured that in this my 21st and final blog
post my friend Morris Saysay has agreed for me to interview him, to give us all an
insight into everyday life in Liberia at present.  Morris is married and lives in Monrovia, the
capital city of Liberia.  He works as an
Operations Coordinator for an international NGO and in addition he is studying
sociology and management at the University of Liberia.  He has asked me to emphasise that his answers
to my questions are his personal opinions, and they do not reflect on the
organisation he works for.



How has the Ebola
outbreak affected life for people in Monrovia?



"The Ebola outbreak has affected every aspect of life for
people in Monrovia and other parts of the country.  There is no free movement, the healthcare
system has broken down, economic hardship has increased greatly and many people
are living in fear."



"Currently, there is a state of emergency being enforced by
the joint security and there is a curfew that runs from 9pm – 6am.  Military and other security personnel are
deployed around quarantined communities and counties.  There is no free movement.   While
many welcome the idea of quarantining infested communities to prevent the
spread of the disease, there is criticism among many about the ways in which state
security are handling the situation.  There have been complaints of mistreatment by
security personnel in quarantined communities, especially West Point where
there was a report of a riot between security forces and community dwellers
that led to several people getting wounded and the death of a 15 years old boy
who was shot and later died in the Redemption Hospital."



"Government, companies and humanitarian organizations have
asked their staff to stay home. They are currently operating with essential
staff only.  The problem here is that
most of the people who work for government or at these organizations are services
contractors who are paid on a daily basis. Sending them home means that they
are left with no sources of income."



"The already poor healthcare system of our country is
overwhelmed by the outbreak.  Doctors and
nurses are not attending to patients visiting the hospital for fear of being
infected.  At a result, many people have
died from curable diseases.  There are
instances where women in labour pain were not attended to and they lost both
their lives and their babies’.  Government
has set up a few treatment centers within Monrovia and other parts of the
country but there are reports that those centers are filled due to influx.  For the fear of health workers not disposing of
medical waste properly which might spread the virus, community dwellers are not
allowing the Ministry of Health to set up Ebola treatment centers within their
communities.  The Liberia National Red
Cross, MSF and Samaritan Purse are all helping to boost government effort."



"The Ebola outbreak has increased the suffering of the
Liberian people."



"Most Liberians are self-employed, they are either farmers or
petty traders.  They produce vegetables
and other agricultural products outside of Montserrado county, transport their
goods to Monrovia and after selling their products, they buy rice and other
goods that they don’t produce and take it back to their family.  This is a daily routine.  Now there is no free movement - you can imagine
the difficulties lots of Liberians are going through."



What are people saying
about Ebola?



"What we are hearing from many quarters in Monrovia is that
government lacks the capacity to combat this disease.  And besides, there is a lack of trust in the
government and citizens are afraid that any resource that comes in will not be
used for the intended purpose.  Others
believe that the government is hiding something.  They don’t believe that it is because of the
Ebola outbreak that the government declares a state of emergency and deploy
military in Monrovia and other parts of the country."



Have you been affected
directly in any way?



"Yes the situation has affected my day to day movement, both
my study and business."



People say that fear
and denial are the biggest barriers to containing the outbreak. Do you agree?



"Yes I do agree fear and denial are the biggest barriers to
containing the outbreak.  During the
early stage of the outbreak, major deaths occurred amongst healthcare workers
due to the lack of personal protective equipment (PPE).  At a result, doctors and nurses abandoned the
hospitals for fear of their lives.  Up to
present, many have not returned to work. 
Because many people do not trust the government and are wary of corrupt
government officials going with impunity, they think that this is a scam from
government to misuse tax payers’ money.  There
are still some, because of their faith or traditional belief, that deny the
virus exists."



What do you think is
needed to bring the outbreak under control?



"In my opinion, vigorous awareness is the first step.  And this should be led by humanitarian
organizations supported by the government.  Reason being, the people lack trust in the
government.  There are credible
humanitarian organizations that have gained the trust of the people over the
years; they will be more easily accepted by the communities than government
workers.  If possible, in addition to
testing the body temperature of people traveling from one county to another at
checkpoints and borders, fast track testing centers should be set up in
communities and hospitals to test and quickly isolate those with Ebola cases
from those with other illness instead of treating every illness as a suspected
Ebola case.  Health workers should be
provided with personal protective equipment, logistics and properly trained in standard
operating procedures with regards to how to handle suspected Ebola
patients.  Lastly, the country needs the
help of volunteer doctors from the international community to help fight this
outbreak."



If you would like to support Liberia to fight Ebola, CLICK HERE to visit my fundraising page and donate to the Red Cross Ebola Outbreak Appeal.  This is a quick and effective way of getting money quickly to the people who need it most.  Thank you for your help.





Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

11:49



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Monday, 1 September 2014








Standing in the gap






“Rarely will anyone die for a righteous person—though perhaps for a good person someone might actually dare to die.”

If you were to ask me would I be willing to die to save someone else’s life, I would probably say it depends.  If it was a child, someone innocent who has had little opportunity to live, maybe I would.  If it was someone I loved very much, then probably.  If it was someone with an exceptional ability make a difference in the world, perhaps.  I would either act on instinct born of love or compassion, or I would have to make an assessment of whether I thought their life counted for more than mine – taking into account my desire not to inflict grief on the people I care about.

There are people who regularly put their lives at risk for the sake of other people whose value they never assess – mountain rescue, life boat crew, fire fighters, the military … this kind of bravery, where a person puts him- or herself between another person and harm, is an awesome thing.  Of the many challenges health workers face and sacrifices they have to make, usually dying for their patients’ sake is not on the list.

In Liberia alone, 147 health workers have contracted Ebola (confirmed, probable and suspected), and 95 have died.  That is between 8 and 9% of the total number of cases and deaths in Liberia.

These are people who would have been highly unlikely to contract Ebola outside work, and who by providing good medical support increase Ebola patients’ chances of survival by 10-15%.  They are also people with homes and families who rely on them, who go to work to do a job as many of us do, in order to provide as well as in order to do good.  By helping to give their patients the best possible chance of survival they have paid the ultimate price.  Barrier nursing techniques could prevent infection of health workers, but where the right equipment or procedures are not available, or where the health worker did not know it was Ebola they were dealing with, some have put caring for their patients above their own safety.

I am thankful that there are people like that in the world.




The Red Cross are providing more protective equipment in order to protect health care workers in Liberia and elsewhere in West Africa.  You can help them – click here to donate to my campaign supporting the Red Cross’ Ebola outbreak appeal.







Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

12:01



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Sunday, 31 August 2014







How to spend $490m in six months







It’s reassuring to know that someone has a plan.  A few days ago the WHO released their Ebola
Response Roadmap with the goal of stopping Ebola transmission within 6-9 months
in affected countries, and preventing international spread.  It’s sobering to see what financial
resources, human and organisational capacity is going to be needed, but more so
to observe the assumption that the outbreak is going to get quite a lot worse
before it gets better, and that already in some areas the number of cases may
be 2-4 times the number we know about.



Let’s take a look inside …



Objective 1: “To achieve
full geographic coverage with complementary Ebola response activities in
countries with widespread and intense transmission.”

Key Milestones: “Reverse
the trend in new cases and infected areas within 3 months, stop transmission in
capital cities and major ports, and stop all residual transmission within 6-9
months.”



Focusing on Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, this means caring for Ebola patients in
purpose-built treatment centres with full infection control measures,
laboratory diagnosis facilities, contact tracing and monitoring, supervised
burials, and engagement with communities. 
Areas with intense transmission
will be continuously identified and monitored, and the interventions will be significantly
stepped up in these locations.  To limit national spread, where there are ‘containment
areas’ (quarantined communities) this means ensuring that basic services such
as primary health care, psycho-social support and food are provided.  Public gatherings should also be
deferred.  To limit international spread, there will be exit screening at all
major land, air or sea borders and no Ebola sufferers will be allowed to travel
unless by medical evacuation.  There will
also be an effort to cover the gaps in
essential services such as health care, education, water and sanitation,
food, and protection.  An investment plan
to strengthen health services in the longer term will be developed, as well as
a fast-track training programme for health workers.



Objective 2: “To ensure
emergency and immediate application of comprehensive Ebola response
interventions in countries with an initial case(s) or with localised
transmission.”

Key Milestone: “Stop all
transmission within 8 weeks of index case.”



In countries like Nigeria, and now Senegal, where there has
been a first case (known as an ‘index case’) and perhaps some transmission on a
relatively small scale, emergency health
procedures should be instigated, including the establishment of an
emergency operations centre and plans for coordination and communication.  Ebola
response protocols must be followed, including isolating patients in a
designated treatment centre, accessing diagnostic capacity, contact
tracing/monitoring, safe burials and good public communication.  Again, international
spread must be prevented by forbidding travel by Ebola-sufferers.



Objective 3: “To strengthen
preparedness of all countries to rapidly detect and respond to an Ebola
exposure, especially those sharing land borders with an intense transmission
area and those with international transportation hubs.”

Key Milestone: “Full
Ebola surveillance preparedness and response plan established in areas sharing
a land border with an Ebola-infected country and at all major international
transportation hubs within one month.”



Neighbouring countries are most at risk of international
spread because of porous land borders (that’s how Ebola got to Senegal), and
transport hubs (as we have seen in Nigeria) are also vulnerable.  All
countries should be prepared – by providing travellers to affected areas
with information, ensuring an isolation facility is available along with
arrangements for diagnosis and contact tracing, if needed.  Countries
with a land border should also provide the population with accurate
information about Ebola and how to prevent it, begin active surveillance for
any clusters of unexplained deaths (particularly near borders) and put in place
means of managing travellers at major land crossings who show signs of fever.  International
travel hubs also need to be prepared to manage passengers with unexplained
fever.



None of this comes cheap – a budget of $490 million (£295.3m)
is projected for a six month period. 
Hard to fathom, isn't it?  Money isn't everything though – the plan also identifies the need for 3170 national
staff, all in skilled or semi-skilled roles, and 410 international staff, in
Liberia alone.  Finding those people will
not be straightforward.  I can’t help thinking
had this level of coordination been put in place earlier, things might never
have got this bad.



Then there are the things that the budget doesn't include – such
as the costs of supporting essential services to be provided in the worst-affected
countries, and the costs of health systems recovery and strengthening in these
areas.  Who, I wonder, is going to take
care of that?




For the keenies, the full Roadmap can be found here: http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/131596/1/EbolaResponseRoadmap.pdf?ua=1







Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

15:26



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Saturday, 30 August 2014







The anxiety of the uninfected






About a week after I returned from Liberia I got a cold. It started with a headache - a classic early Ebola symptom. Being perhaps a little run down after an intense period of work and travel, it hit me hard, and I felt exhausted and weak. The thought crept into the corner of my mind, what if I have Ebola?

Being a rational sort of gal I knew this was intensely unlikely. I was in a 'low risk' category. High risk people are the family of Ebola sufferers, medical workers and aid workers in affected communities or treatment centres. As a foreign visitor who had never knowingly come into contact with a sick person, I could only have contracted Ebola by touching someone or something contaminated with an Ebola patient's bodily fluids, then eating, rubbing my eyes or nose or touching a broken area of skin before washing my hands. I didn't honestly believe this had happened.

But it was just possible ... so how far should I go in taking precautions? Should I sleep in the spare room and keep my husband away? Should I refuse entry to my home when my friend visits with her 11 month old baby? Should I try not to touch my young niece and nephew? It's easy to be logical when it is only your own health at stake, but the thought of putting loved ones at risk bred a gnawing anxiety.

I'm just one person with access to good information sources - so I carried on as normal and checked my temperature regularly for my own peace of mind. But what happens when you multiply that nagging doubt, that hypothetical guilt, to a whole population? Only a minority may be acutely affected by Ebola, but no one is untouched - the whole of West Africa is on edge.





Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

13:47



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Friday, 29 August 2014







Treatment







The human body is an amazing thing.  We’ve studied it for centuries, and still
there is so much that we don’t understand. 
Its ability to heal and regenerate itself must be one of the most intriguing
things about it - in film and television this is often exaggerated and
described as a superpower (X-Men, Heroes …) but the truth is we are all capable
of self-regeneration – just not instantaneously!  Something that I didn’t know before my
husband specialised in intensive care medicine is how much our most high-tech medical
interventions rely on the body’s own ability to heal itself.  Notwithstanding antibiotics to kill bacteria
and so on, fundamentally what intensive care offers is the skills, drugs and technology
to support failing systems in the body, keeping it going and buying it time to
repair itself, or not.



No matter where you are in the world, in the absence of any
cure, the treatment for Ebola is supportive care.  Its purpose is to keep the patient alive as
long as possible to give the immune system the time it needs to mobilise its
response, which will be new and specific to the virus that it is up
against.  That is why there has been some
benefit in previous outbreaks in using serums to treat Ebola – that is,
extracts from the blood of Ebola survivors that can be injected into Ebola
sufferers.  Their blood contains the antibodies
that the immune system has generated, which gives the recipient’s immune system
a head start in working out what to do about the viral invasion.  The body is capable of eliminating Ebola – we
just don’t know how.



In Ebola treatment centres in West Africa run by MSF or in
hospitals, this supportive therapy focuses on the basics of life.  They are kept hydrated, and their oxygen
status is maintained.  This keeps their
blood pressure as stable as possible.  Since
their immune system is otherwise occupied they are susceptible to other
infections, and these can be treated. 
Beyond that, all we can do it watch, and wait – but the time that this
supportive treatment buys a patient can make the difference between life and
death.  MSF estimates that early
treatment can improve the chances of surviving Ebola by 10-15%.




Of course, what would really buy Ebola patients time is
access to the full works of intensive care support – invasive ventilation,
powerful drugs (inotropes) that modulate blood pressure and heart contraction,
haemofiltration (like dialysis) to replace non-functioning kidneys, one-to-one
nursing … Not only would this give the immune system time to work its magic,
but even for those who did not recover, their death would be far less
traumatic.  As soon as it became clear
that the patient was deteriorating into severe multi organ failure, they would
be anaesthetised and ventilated, so as well as receiving other treatments to
give them a chance, they would not suffer. 
The trouble is, this comes at a cost. 
In the UK, a bed on intensive care costs on average around £2000 per
night – so that would be £28,000 for just one patient with two weeks of
Ebola.  It also requires a consistent and
safe supply of a wide range of drugs, lots of nurses, complex equipment that
requires a specific skill-set to operate, even amongst doctors, a lot of clean
water and a reliable electricity supply – you can’t very well provide life
support where there is a risk of a power cut. 
Too bad it’s not countries that can afford it that get Ebola.







Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

12:41



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest













Thursday, 28 August 2014







'Fear will be your enemy'







Everyone who is parent to or otherwise spends time with a
girl under the age of, say, 13, will know that when fear grips you, bad things
can happen.  Especially if you are an ice-wielding
princess struggling to control her powers (even if you don’t have any children
as an excuse, I still recommend the film ‘Frozen’ as a heart-warming if cheesy use
of 108 minutes).  In Liberia, the main
reason the Ebola outbreak is not under control is the potent combination of
fear, denial and distrust.  We often
think of fear as irrational, something that causes senseless action.  It might be tempting to read events like
families hiding cases of Ebola in their homes, patients running away from
treatment centres, or communities rioting to escape a quarantined area, in this
way.  But I think that if we can put
ourselves into the position of a person behaving in this way, we can begin to
see the logic, consistency and good sense in their actions – and the challenge
to change perceptions that the Red Cross and others playing their part in the outbreak
response face.



Of course, we’re all a little bit scared of Ebola – it’s a
terrifying disease.  Even when we read
news articles (or even blogs) about places over three thousand miles away, it
still causes us a little anxiety knowing that there are diseases like that out
there.  But Liberians have other reasons
to be afraid.




Many people in Liberia have had very little contact with
Western-style medicine.  Access to health
care is very poor in Liberia, and during the civil wars it was virtually non-existent.  Alongside this, there is very poor access to
education, particularly in rural areas, for the poorest people in the population
and for women, so there has been little opportunity to learn of the benefits of
modern medicine.  Rather, people have
always relied on traditional healing, including both the use of herbs and
roots, and magical interventions, in order to address their ailments.  Many people have rarely or never faced a
situation where they have had to trust Western medicine.  Then a relative falls sick with a fever that
looks just like the malarial fever that everyone has had at some point in their
life.  They are taken away by strangers
in strange suits to a medical facility. 
Then, their condition worsens, and they die a terrible death like
nothing anyone has seen before.  From
that perspective, you might be forgiven for thinking, at best, that Western
medicine is ineffective, or at worst, that someone has maliciously tortured and
killed your loved-one, either directly or through some malevolent magic.  In order to trust someone or something, you
need to believe that it is competent to do what is needed, and that it is benevolent
to do it.

Then there are the measures that the government is taking to contain the outbreak: road blocks, quarantining communities, soldiers going house-to house to find families who are hiding cases of Ebola in their homes.  This would be intimidating for anyone, but Liberia is a post-war country where most of the population has experienced these things before.  Now I'm not saying these measures are wrong - you would have to ask a Liberian living in the country to make that kind of assessment, I'm in no position to judge the pros and cons of the government's actions.  A Ugandan friend tells me that a tough approach from their government has previously prevented Ebola outbreaks from spreading in his country.  Still, imagine what it is like to have a soldier force his way into your house when the last time this happened, people were screaming, gunshots were being fired, there were bodies in the street and children running into the bush to hide. Houses looted, young boys kidnapped, women assaulted and many people arbitrarily executed. There is a real danger of retraumatising a population with a lot of bad memories.

Survival is a daily challenge for the majority of Liberians, over 60% of whom live below the national poverty line.  Recently, the prices of staple goods such as rice and drinkable water have rocketed by 80%.  The main commercial hub of Monrovia is the Waterside area,  and 70% of traders who serve this economic centre live in the quarantined community of West point,  which had been barricaded for at least three weeks to contain instances of Ebola in this one of the poorest and most densely populated areas in the country.  Add to that the restrictions in cross - border and cross - country trade, and the supply of rice and water, the essentials of life, is in serious jeopardy.  People who already live on the edge of survival cannot afford these price increases - as a Liberian aid worker pleaded on CBC news,

"We need food, we need water. We're not just fighting Ebola here, we are fighting hunger too."

Trust is something that we badly need in order to cooperate with other people without unbearable anxiety.  In order to trust, whether that is medical workers, the government, NGOs, traders of basic commodities or other citizens, people come from a place of vulnerability and uncertainty about how they will be treated. Drawing on past experiences, cultural background and the advice of influential others they assess whether they expect a favourable outcome to arise through trusting. In order to trust, they must make a leap of faith, accepting their vulnerability and acting as if the outcome will be good even though they don't know whether this will be the case. Trust could not be more relevant and essential to Liberia, and it is in the balance in this crisis. A lot hinges on the successful management of the outbreak.






Posted by



Rachel Ayrton




at

05:25



No comments:
    









Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest
















Older Posts

Home




Subscribe to:
Posts (Atom)
















Supporting the Red Cross to fight Ebola in West Africa - click on the motorbike to give





Click on the image to link to my fundraising page











Follow by Email






























About Me





Rachel Ayrton





View my complete profile











Blog Archive






▼ 

2014
(22)



▼ 

September
(3)

Epilogue
A Liberian point of view
Standing in the gap








          ► 
        


August
(19)










































POWr Social Media Icons
































Travel template. Powered by Blogger.
































