Sons of Ebola patient Nancy Writebol: She's 'happy to be healed' - Health - TODAY.comSons of Ebola patient Nancy Writebol: She's 'happy to be healed' - Health - TODAY.com







Watch the Show
News
Pop Culture
Food
Health
Money
Pets
Parents
Style
KLG & Hoda
Orange Room
More

TODAY Apps
Visit TODAY
Good News
Home
Books
allDAY
Concert Series
Hip2Save
Rossen Reports


NBCNews.com






TODAY Health


Health


follow us
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Tumblr
Newsletter
RSS






SHOW ME:

all


on the show


diet & fitness


wellness


relationships


breast cancer


trending















ebola
Sons on Ebola patient Nancy Writebol’s release from hospital: She's 'happy to be healed'


Trending
Artist uses mementos to remember 'Clouds' singer Zach Sobiech in moving portrait


Health
How is Bentley? Support pours in for dog of nurse with Ebola


pinkpower
Show your #PinkPower: Buy a TODAY shirt to benefit breast cancer awareness


Trending
Rene Russo reveals struggle with bipolar disorder on 'Queen Latifah Show'


breastfeeding
Breast cancer survivor's post about why she didn't breast-feed goes viral


Joy Bauer
Yum! 3 Joy Bauer-approved apple recipes for dinner, dessert 


Health
'Tingleheads' claim videos help ease stress


On the show
HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell has 'confidence’ in CDC, director amid new Texas Ebola case


Halloween
Still in search of a Halloween costume? Consider this Ebola hazmat suit


Diet & Fitness
Not feeling the gym? 3 tricks that’ll motivate you on your 'off' days 


Kids' health
'His life was spared': Boy with rare paralyzing disease has brain 'rewired'


Trending
Howdy, slim! Zach Galifianakis shows off trim new figure on 'Tonight'


cancer
'I'm here for you': What to say (and not say) to a cancer patient


Health
Perk up: Facebook and Apple now pay for women to freeze eggs


On the show
Inside an Ebola isolation unit: How doctors, nurses protect themselves


Maria Shriver
Ann Romney launches center for MS, Alzheimer's research; says Mitt won't run in 2016


Health
Bentley's fate: Dallas nurse's dog faces Ebola isolation


Trending
Olympic skier Mikaela Shiffrin moved to tears by young fan who battled leukemia


food
That apple you just bought might be a year old – but does it matter?


On the show
Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel on Ebola: 'Panic is something we can't afford'







Advertise




Advertise







ebola
Sons on Ebola patient Nancy Writebol’s release from hospital: She's 'happy to be healed'



Eun Kyung Kim
TODAY

 
Aug. 22, 2014 at 7:37 AM ET






Facebook



Twitter



Reddit



Pinterest



Email



Nancy Writebol's sons, Jeremy and Brian, say that watching their mother battle, then overcome, the Ebola virus has taken them from the lowest of lows to the highest of highs."She is really happy to be healed and out of the hospital," Brian Writebol told TODAY's Matt Lauer in an exclusive interview Friday.Nancy Writebol, one of two Americans infected with the virus, was discharged from an Atlanta hospital on Tuesday. She arrived at Emory University Hospital on Aug. 5, just days after another Ebola victim, Dr. Kent Brantly, was admitted.Writebol contracted the virus while in Liberia doing missionary aid work. Her release from the hospital was the first time she and her husband, David, could physically be with each other in nearly a month. TODAY Jeremy and Brian Writebol “It was a beautiful time. They were just able to be together and to see one other for the first time in several weeks,” Brian said. “It was really, really good.”Jeremy said his mother is not sure whether she will return to Africa but "she's still thinking about it" and is discussing the option with her husband. TODAY Nancy Writebol and her husband David, photographed on Aug. 20. "Africa is still in their heart and the suffering and the people in western Africa is still very deep in them," Jeremy explained. His parents hope their time spent recovering "will give them some clarity on what to do next and where to go."For now, Nancy Writebol continues to regain her strength, and the only thing she wants to do is focus on quietly recovering with her husband. A family friend recently launched a crowdfunding campaign on GoFundMe is raising money to help pay for Writebol's medical expenses. “She’s tired and trying to rest,” Jeremy said. “There’s still some physical recovery that has to go on there but her color is good and strong.”The Writebols said that their mother believes several factors played into her amazing recovery, including her Christian faith and the care she received at the hospital. They also believe an experimental treatment she received helped, "but certainly, that supportive care at Emory was huge."Follow TODAY.com writer Eun Kyung Kim on Google+ or on Twitter.





        Tags:

TODAY Health, 
ebola, 
On the show, 
Nancy Writebol, 
exclusive 



share
tweet
email
comment (0)













About TODAY
Contact us
Heard it on TODAY?
Mobile site


Watch the Show
News
Pop Culture
Food
Health
Money
Pets
Parents
Style
KLG & Hoda
Orange Room



TODAY.com is a production ofNBCNews.com


About us
Contact
Sitemap
Jobs
Terms and conditions - New
About our ads
Privacy policy
Closed captioning
Advertise
Help







        TOP
    






            Subscribe to  newsletters
            



                Rise to shine with the best of TODAY! Sign up for our free newsletters.
            





TODAY Daily Buzz
Get more news from TODAY, America’s favorite morning show





TODAY Food
Find delicious recipes, cooking tips and chef interviews





TODAY Entertainment
Catch the hottest entertainment stories and celebrity news





TODAY Concert Series
Watch the exclusive performance from your favorite artists



Continue to TODAY.com

























