BBC News - Ebola outbreak: UN calls for $1bn to fight virusBBC News - Ebola outbreak: UN calls for $1bn to fight virus












        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   Capital   Future   Shop   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Africa







Home
US & Canada
Latin America
UK
Africa
Asia
Europe
Mid-East
Business
Health
Sci/Environment
Tech
Entertainment
Video


























16 September 2014
Last updated at 13:12 ET


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Ebola outbreak: UN calls for $1bn to fight virus


The WHO says more than 200,000 people could potentially be affected as the virus advances


Continue reading the main story


Ebola outbreak


How many have died?


How soon for treatments?


How not to catch Ebola


Living with Ebola



 More than $1bn (£618m) is needed to fight the West Africa Ebola outbreak, which is a health crisis "unparalleled in modern times", UN officials say.
The spread of the disease means the funds needed to fight the outbreak have increased ten-fold in the past month, the UN's Ebola co-ordinator said.
Ebola has killed 2,461 people this year, about half of those infected, the World Health Organization said.
There has been criticism of the slow international response to the epidemic.
The outbreak began in Guinea before spreading to its neighbours Sierra Leone and Liberia.
Nigeria and Senegal have reported some cases, but seem to have contained the transmission of the virus.
'Massive surge needed'

Continue reading the main story “Start Quote
The window of opportunity to contain this outbreak is closing”
End Quote
Joanne Liu
MSF president
 "We requested about $100m a month ago and now it is $1bn, so our ask has gone up 10 times in a month," the UN's Ebola co-ordinator, David Nabarro, told a briefing in Geneva.
"Because of the way the outbreak is advancing, the level of surge we need to do is unprecedented, it is massive."
At the same briefing, World Health Organization (WHO) deputy head Bruce Aylward announced the latest Ebola case figures. 
The virus has infected at least 4,985 people so far, with about half of those infected dying.
"Quite frankly, ladies and gentlemen, this health crisis we're facing is unparalleled in modern times. We don't know where the numbers are going on this," he said.
Continue reading the main story






Ebola deaths in West Africa
            
                             Up to 12 October


4,493
Deaths -probable, confirmed and suspected



(Includes one death in US)




2,458 Liberia 


843 Guinea 


1183 Sierra Leone 


8 Nigeria 


Source: WHO

Getty




When the WHO had said it needed the capacity to manage 20,000 cases two weeks ago "that seemed like a lot", Dr Aylward said.
"That does not seem like a lot today," he added.
US President Barack Obama is expected to announce plans to send 3,000 American troops to Liberia, one of countries worst affected by the outbreak, to help fight the virus.
Officials say the troops will build 17 health care centres, each with 100 beds, deliver health care kits to hundreds of thousands of homes and help train 500 health workers a week.
Infected 'turned away'
Medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) called on other countries to follow the US lead as the response to outbreak continued to fall "dangerously behind".
At the Ebola briefing, MSF president Joanne Liu said there needed to be "co-ordinated response, organised and executed under clear chain of command". 
"The window of opportunity to contain this outbreak is closing," she said. "We need more countries to stand up, we need greater deployment, and we need it now."


The WHO says the most urgent immediate need is more medical staff

Sick people in the Liberian capital were banging on the doors of MSF Ebola care centres desperate for a safe place in which to be isolated, she said.
"Tragically, our teams must turn them away; we simply do not have enough capacity for them," Dr Liu said.
"Highly infectious people are forced to return home, only to infect others and continue the spread of this deadly virus. All for a lack of international response."
Earlier on Tuesday, the WHO welcomed China's pledge to send a mobile laboratory team to Sierra Leone, which will include epidemiologists, clinicians and nurses.
"The most urgent immediate need in the Ebola response is for more medical staff," WHO head Margaret Chan said in the statement.



Ebola virus disease (EVD)




 Symptoms include high fever, bleeding and central nervous system damage
 Spread by body fluids, such as blood and saliva
 Current outbreak has mortality rate of about 55%
 Incubation period is two to 21 days
 There is no proven vaccine or cure
 'Biological war': A week on the Ebola frontline
Ebola: Mapping the outbreak
How bad can it get?







More on This Story


Ebola outbreak
	      






How many have died?

How many people are dying?




How soon for treatments?




How not to catch Ebola




Living with Ebola




Why so dangerous?




Mapping the outbreak




Ailing health systems




What is Ebola? Watch




Busting the myths 




Five ways to tackle outbreak




How to avoid Ebola




Virus in video




'Biological warfare'




How bad can Ebola get?




Economic 'devastation'




In pictures: Battling Ebola 




Virus detective




I caught Ebola and survived




BBC Ebola podcast







Video



How Ebola attacks Watch

The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. This graphic explains how it attacks human cells.




Fear spreads to economy Watch




The challenge of Ebola Watch




Four-month-old laid to rest Watch




'I survived Ebola outbreak' Watch




Inside a testing laboratory Watch














Related Internet links


WHO


MSF




Around the BBC


Africa Today podcasts



The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites



















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print
















More Africa stories
RSS




Air raids and clashes hit Benghazi

Gunfire and air strikes rock Libya's second city, Benghazi, amid an offensive to drive out Islamist militias.



Reeva's death 'end of the world'




Ebola winning the race, UN warns












Top stories



Passenger alert over US Ebola nurse


Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards


Global shares slide on growth fears


Reeva's death 'end of the world'


BBC website blocked in China









Features & Analysis




Diet U-turn

Should people be eating more fat? 	
				  




Fighting for justice

The man who was jailed when he exposed his crooked boss  	
				  




Rich list

If Black America were a country, where would it rank globally? 	
				  




Bible Belt ballot

The place where country music and abortion don't mix 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Second Texas Ebola case announced



3: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



4: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



5: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



Read




1: Flight alert over new US Ebola case



2: Bono sorry for iTunes album release



3: Worker seeks pay rise in mass email



4: Why is the US Navy practising for war with China?



5: Trekkers die in Nepal blizzards



6: Dutch bikers join fight against IS



7: Girl meets Hillary Clinton, freaks out



8: Giant kangaroo 'walked on two feet' 



9: US spy Greenglass's death revealed



10: Saudi cleric 'sentenced to death'



Video/Audio




1: Secret tape puts minister in hot water Watch



3: In 80 seconds: Ebola vaccine Watch



4: Bono sorry for free album download Watch



5: Crack appears in plane cabin Watch



6: In 60 seconds: What is Ebola? Watch



7: How does Ebola attack human cells? Watch



8: Chinese billionaire Huang Nubo unveiled Watch



9: Drunken hovercraft landing on CCTV Watch



10: On board USS George Washington Watch












Elsewhere on the BBC 



Unexpected oasis

Crime plagues other parts of Honduras, but not this colourful utopian island











Programmes



Click Watch

The Russian artist who plays music on his arm through a barcode tattoo






























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Media Action
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     Advertise With UsPrivacyAccessibility Help     Ad ChoicesCookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       BBC © 2014 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  







































    








