 | Ebola treatment worked on monkeys | Ebola treatment worked on monkeys



x


Search for:



 





October 15, 2014
Home
Ebola
World News
US News
Business
NASA News
Politics
Health
 

Twitter
Google+
E-mail













Main menu
Skip to content
Contact
About Us








Posted on September 1, 2014  by  Dan Mullin 
Ebola treatment worked on monkeys


An experimental Ebola drug developed in San Diego protected all monkeys infected with the deadly virus in lab testing, according to a study published Friday in the journal Nature.
The research provides more promise that ZMapp, from Mapp Biopharmaceutical in Sorrento Mesa, could help human patients fight off the outbreak raging across much of West Africa.
In the study, 18 rhesus macaques were given ZMapp up to five days after infection. All of them survived.
“The level of improvement was utterly beyond my honest expectation,” said one of the study’s leaders, Gary Kobinger of the Public Health Agency of Canada in Winnipeg.
“For animal data, it’s extremely impressive,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, which had a role in the work.
It’s unknown how well ZMapp — a combination of three antibodies — would work in people, where Ebola can take up to 21 days to show symptoms. That determination requires a clinical trial, which could begin late this year or in early 2015.




 

Ebola 


Tagged abola, abola disease, Anthony Fauci, Canada, Ebola, ebola america, ebola cure, Ebola Dallas, ebola news, Ebola Outbreak, ebola sick, ebola symptoms, ebola texas, ebola vaccine, Ebola Virus, Mapp Biopharmaceutical, San Diego, West Africa, what is ebola? 


Post navigation
← Previous Next →

 




More News

Hollywood Gossip
NBA Updates
The Urban TMZ


Updates On EbolaAn Essay For Action Against Ebola
2nd HCW Test Positive for Ebola in Dallas
Ebola survivor infects wife to death
Head of World Bank Makes Ebola His Mission
Contact
About Us
 




 
 






			©                          Amazon.com Widgets








