Liberian horrors: Ebola victims bodies dumped in the street, wells poisoned to kill off population  | The Extinction Protocol Liberian horrors: Ebola victims bodies dumped in the street, wells poisoned to kill off population  | The Extinction Protocol 






The Extinction Protocol 


Geologic and Earthchange News events





Skip to content
HomeBooks of ScienceLoungeContactThe Extinction Protocol Radio







← Possible carrier of Ebola virus being monitored in Wales
Nigeria: 1 new Ebola death, 5 cases confirmed – mystery intensifies on exactly how virus being transmitted →


Liberian horrors: Ebola victims bodies dumped in the street, wells poisoned to kill off population

Posted on August 6, 2014 by The Extinction Protocol  


August 2014 – AFRICA – Relatives of Ebola victims in Liberia defied government orders and dumped infected bodies in the streets as West African governments struggled to enforce tough measures to curb an outbreak of the virus that has killed 887 people. In Nigeria, which recorded its first death from Ebola in late July, authorities in Lagos said eight people who came in contact with the deceased U.S. citizen Patrick Sawyer were showing signs of the deadly disease. The outbreak was detected in March in the remote forest regions of Guinea, where the death toll is rising. In neighboring Sierra Leone and Liberia, where the outbreak is now spreading fastest, authorities deployed troops to quarantine the border areas where 70 percent of cases have been detected. Those three countries announced a raft of tough measures last week to contain the disease, shutting schools and imposing quarantines on victim’s homes, amid fears the incurable virus would overrun healthcare systems in one of the world’s poorest regions. In Liberia’s ramshackle ocean-front capital Monrovia, still scarred by a 1989-2003 civil war, relatives of Ebola victims were dragging bodies onto the dirt streets rather than face quarantine, officials said. Information Minister Lewis Brown said some people may be alarmed by regulations imposing the decontamination of victims’ homes and the tracking of their friends and relatives. With less than half of those infected surviving the disease, many Africans regard Ebola isolation wards as death traps.
“They are therefore removing the bodies from their homes and are putting them out in the street. They’re exposing themselves to the risk of being contaminated,” Brown told Reuters. “We’re asking people to please leave the bodies in their homes and we’ll pick them up.” Brown said authorities had begun cremating bodies on Sunday, after local communities opposed burials in their neighborhoods, and had carried out 12 cremations on Monday. Meanwhile, in the border region of Lofa County, troops were deployed on Monday night to start isolating effected communities there. “We hope it will not require excessive force, but we have to do whatever we can to restrict the movement of people out of affected areas,” Brown said. Finance minister Amara Konneh said the country’s growth forecast for the year was no longer looking realistic as a result of the outbreak. Sierra Leone’s foreign minister Samura Kamara also said that the virus had cost the government $10 million so far and was hampering efforts to stimulate growth. British Airways said it was suspending flights to and from Liberia and Sierra Leone until the end of the month due to public health concerns. Germany joined France and the United States in advising against travel to Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, saying there was still no end in sight to the spread of the disease. Concern grew over an outbreak in Lagos, Africa’s largest city, after medical authorities there said they had quarantined 14 people who came into contact with Sawyer after he arrived on a regional flight from Liberia. The airline Asky has since been barred from Nigeria. “Of the 14 who have had serious contact with the victim, eight have serious symptoms,” Lagos Health Commissioner Jide Idris told a news conference. “Only one of those quarantined has tested positive … The doctor who tested positive is now on the mainland under intensive care.” With healthcare systems in the West African nations overrun by the epidemic, the African Development Bank and World Bank said they would immediately disburse $260 million to the three countries worst affected – Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea. –Reuters 
Wells poisoned in Liberia: Armed men have allegedly poisoned wells and other water bodies in Liberia’s New Georgia in order to kill the residents under the pretext of Ebola outbreak. The water from the wells and pumps has been used by thousands of people in the area. At least 16 people are suspected to be dead because of well-poisoning in the Margibi community. It is still unclear what the exact motive of the culprits was. Witnesses have reported sighting armed men introducing suspected poisonous substances using syringes. The villagers reported the incident to the police and investigators are said to be looking into the matter. “Nobody is having exact information as to the diagnosis and everybody is confused. So the [well poisoning] incident that happened yesterday at the [New Georgia] junction is a wakeup call on the government, especially the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOH&SW), to test the water in every well,” Buston Kolliegbo, a resident, told the Daily Observer. The incident has reportedly caused panic in the region and fears over Ebola outbreak have compounded their woes. –IB Times


About these ads




ShareEmailShare on Tumblr

Related
 

												This entry was posted in Black Swan Event, Civilizations unraveling, Dark Ages, Disease outbreak, Earth Changes, Earth Watch, Ecology overturn, Environmental Threat, Hazardous chemical exposure, High-risk potential hazard zone, Human behavioral change after disaster, New virus reported, Pestilence Watch, Potential Earthchange hotspot, Prophecies referenced, Time - Event Acceleration. Bookmark the permalink.											


← Possible carrier of Ebola virus being monitored in Wales
Nigeria: 1 new Ebola death, 5 cases confirmed – mystery intensifies on exactly how virus being transmitted →


13 Responses to Liberian horrors: Ebola victims bodies dumped in the street, wells poisoned to kill off population




 Dennis E. says: 

				August 6, 2014 at 11:08 am 
And the reports keeps getting worst……… I read an article that it is prior to burial kiss their dead relatives therefore possibly becoming infected.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Bert G. says: 

				August 6, 2014 at 4:10 pm 
The poisoning of water wells is a big concern. That is why various people/group retreats deal with strangers near wellheads/springs as potential hostile threats. One of the first things BLM did to the Bundy Ranch was to destroy the stock watering tanks. These evil people understand all too well that without water, thirst will turn the strongest into meek, compliant eunuchs.
LikeLike


Reply 





 mo says: 

				August 6, 2014 at 4:10 pm 
Yes indeed, out of control,,, look it just spread to America,,, purposely!!
LikeLike


Reply 





 suez62 says: 

				August 6, 2014 at 6:05 pm 
If this is real, then why doesn’t the guy have on a mask or something???  Weird.
LikeLike


Reply 





 jo says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 10:45 am 
The people of these poor towns would likely not have access to masks etc.  They may also not be  aware of how the disease is spread.  If they are dumping corpses in the street then I would assume they are not aware of the dangers that exist even after the person is deceased.
LikeLike


Reply 







 Shepherd says: 

				August 6, 2014 at 9:54 pm 
Animals get ebola.  Leaving corpses for animals to eat is worse than burning them as protocol mandates.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Sue says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 3:59 am 
The depopulation of Africa and America begins.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Donny says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 11:47 am 
As long as depopulation was confined to the “elite”, the banksters, the Wall Streeters and the military-industrial complex, I would not have a problem with it.  In fact, sooner would be better ….
LikeLike


Reply 







 lee hawkins says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 6:54 am 
“How Ebola manages to first infect humans is poorly understood. Primates like monkeys and apes are possible agents of transmission (also called vectors), although birds, rodents, bats, pigs, and insects may be more likely to transmit the disease. The virus can even be transmitted to dogs, although they don’t seem to get sick.Ebola appears to be transmitted through saliva and other bodily fluids, even sweat.”  http://www.lewrockwell.com/2014/08/no_author/incurable-ebola/
LikeLike


Reply 





 Defiant says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 2:46 pm 
It doesn’t help that you simply CAN NOT REACH these people with instruction regarding modern hygiene and handling precautions. Their ignorance will end up spreading Ebola all over the world.
LikeLike


Reply 





 Reba7 says: 

				August 7, 2014 at 3:51 pm 
Collioidal silver (CS) will destroy staph and strep bacteria which are so common in today’s health problems. In the silver literature there are listings of over 650 diseases and health problems that silver in colloidal form will effect in very positive ways. The frequency of silver is higher than almost all of the known harmful crystal-headed viruses such as that of AIDS, Ebola, West Nile, and SARS and thus will destroy them…. – See more at: http://www.gods-kingdom-ministries.net/daily-weblogs/2014/08-2014/defending-yourself-from-an-ebola-pandemic/#sthash.sRVR6phs.dpuf
LikeLike


Reply 





 Bad Santa says: 

				August 8, 2014 at 5:20 am 
The bodies are left to rot on the street so they can infect as many people as possible. The police and ambulance have been ordered to stand down. Watch the masters at work.
And somewhere in London’s prestige apartment on the 30th floor someone named Rothschild is singing: ‘I’ve got the whole world in my hand…’
LikeLike


Reply 





 Jay Blue says: 

				August 17, 2014 at 8:43 pm 
Flies will probably spread the virus to the mouth region of children and adults!
LikeLike


Reply 




All comments are moderated. We reserve the right not to post any comment deemed defamatory, inappropriate, or spam. Cancel reply




Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:





























 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website














 You are commenting using your WordPress.com account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Twitter account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Facebook account. ( Log Out / Change )












 You are commenting using your Google+ account. ( Log Out / Change )




Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.







 









Search for:



  Recent Posts 

Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list


Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola


Health officials warn new Ebola cases could soon reach 10,000 a week


Ebola death toll rises to 4,447 – mortality rate for virus peaks at 70%


7.3 magnitude earthquake strikes off coast of El Salvador killing 1


Archives 
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010

Categories 
* Publisher Coupon Discount

1 Submit story

11:11 signature encoded

2012

Acquatic Ecosystem crash

Animal Extinction

Apostasy

Avalanche

Black hole or supernova

Black Swan Event

Blizzard

Breaking News Event

Catastrophic Insurance losses mount

Celebrities and the Apocalypse

Civilizations unraveling

Climate unraveling

Cloudburst storms with flashflooding

Comets

Commentary

Cosmic and Gamma Ray emissions

Cracks

Crowd Control technology

Cryometeor

Cyber Warfare

Cyclone or Hurricane

Dark Ages

Deluge from torrential rains

Derecho storm

Derecho storm system

Desertification

Disappearing Lakes

Disease outbreak

Dormant fault activation

Dream Portal TEP

Drought

Drumbeat of War

Dust Storm

Earth Changes

Earth Watch

Earth's core dynamics

Earthquake Omens?

Eclipse

Ecology overturn

Economic upheaval, social unrest, terrorism

Ecoystem crisis due to population boom

Editor's note to readers – policy

Electric power disruption & grid failure

Electronic Surveillence

Emerging disease threat

Environmental Threat

Erratic Jet Stream

Ethnic or religious strife

Extinction Protocol Exclusive Editorial

Extinction Threat

Extreme Weather Event

Famine Threat

Financial System Collapse

Fireballs

Fireballs, Meteor or Asteroid

Flooding

Food chain unraveling

Forecast book quotation

Fracking quake suspected

Frost Quakes

Fungus outbreak

Future coding

Futuristic tech trends

Gale-force winds and gusts

Geomagnetic Storm Alert

Geyser eruption

Glacial fracture

Global Debt Bomb

Hailstorm

Harmonic tremor swarm

Hazardous chemical exposure

Health guideliness issued

Heatwave

High-risk potential hazard zone

Hum noise

Human behavioral change after disaster

Ice Storm

Infrastructure collapse

Invasive species threat

Land fissures

Land fissures, cracks, sinkholes

Landslide & geological deformation

Lava flow

Lightning storm

Limnic overturn

Lithosphere collapse & fisssure

Lurid acts of violence increasing

Magma Plume activity

Magnetic pole migration

Marine animal strandings

Mass animal deaths

Meteor or Asteroid

Monthly lead post

Mud volcano

Mystery Boom & Shaking

Natural gas explosion

New land rises from sea

New virus reported

New volcanic activity

New weapons of war

New World Order -Dystopia- War

Nuclear plant crisis

Pack Animal Aggression

Pest Explosions

Pestilence Watch

Planetary discovery

Planetary Tremor Event

Polar Vortex

Poleshift risks

Potential Earthchange hotspot

Prophecies referenced

Quarantine

Rare snowfall

Reality Check

Record Cold temperatures

Record high temperatures

Record rainfall

Record snowfall

Red Tide

Resource war

Rising tension between nations

Rumors of War

Scientific blunders

Seismic tremors

Signs of Magnetic Field weakening

sinkholes

Social unrest

Solar Event

Space Watch

Strange high tides & freak waves

Strange unexplained noises

Subglacial flood event

Submarine volcanic eruption

Submarine Volcano

Supermoon

Tectonic plate movement

Time – Event Acceleration

Tornado Outbreak

Unknown phenomena in the sky

Unprecedented Flooding

Unseasonable Weather Event

Unsolved Mystery

Unusual hail storm

Unusual solar behavior

Ususual animal behavior for disaster

Volcanic Ash

Volcanic Eruption

Volcanic gas emissions

Volcano unrest

Volcano Watch

Water Crisis – Conflict

Wildfires


Email Subscription

Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Join 11,363 other followers







 



EP: Live Twitter Feed

				Second Ebola patient traveled on commercial airline day before symptoms appeared – CDC requests passenger list  wp.me/p1eYXc-amj -The Extinction Protocol...				4 hours ago


				M5.1  - 124km NNE of Vik, Iceland 2014-10-15 11:16:33 UTC (via @usgs)  earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/ev… -The Extinction Protocol...				8 hours ago


				Sloppy protocols: second healthcare worker from Dallas hospital tests positive for Ebola  wp.me/p1eYXc-amb -The Extinction Protocol...				9 hours ago

Books by the Author

Books by the Author


News website

Utopia the collapse


Youtube Channel

The Extinction Protocol Radio






The Extinction Protocol: 2012 and beyondThe world will change. Will you be ready?





 








 




 




					The Extinction Protocol 				


The Twenty Ten Theme.				Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
			






































Follow

Follow “The Extinction Protocol ”

Get every new post delivered to your Inbox.

Join 11,363 other followers








Powered by WordPress.com







Send to Email Address

Your Name

Your Email Address




Cancel

				Post was not sent - check your email addresses!			

				Email check failed, please try again			

				Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.			







 



