Luminex Technology Supporting USAMRIID Ebola ResponseLuminex Technology Supporting USAMRIID Ebola ResponseGlobal BiodefenseNews on Pathogens and PreparednessHome
CBRNE
Pathogens
Countermeasures
Detection
Funding

Funding News
Industry News
Funding Portal


Events
Subscribe
Luminex Technology Supporting USAMRIID Ebola Response
August 5, 2014 Luminex Corporation this week announced that U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRIID) Diagnostics Division is working on rapid diagnostics for the Ebola virus using Luminex xMAP Technology. Luminex’s MAGPIX system was recently deployed to Africa to support research efforts to control the current outbreak.
The recent Ebola outbreak has so far claimed 729 lives across Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone according to the World Health Organization . Ebola virus disease is a severe, often fatal illness in humans characterized by the sudden onset of fever, intense weakness, muscle pain, headache and sore throat. Early diagnosis is critical for proper management of the illness and prevention of spread.
Developed by USAMRIID Diagnostics Division and run on the MAGPIX system, the assays test serum samples for the presence of viral antigens (proteins) as well as antibodies directed at these antigens. Results of the assays provide information about replication of the virus and the immune response of the host, respectively.
In a study conducted in rhesus macaques, Dr. Abbe Ames and colleagues showed that some animals may be able to limit the replication of the virus, and thus have a better chance of survival.1 Understanding the pathophysiology of the Ebola virus may assist in the development of countermeasures against the disease that could save lives.
“Our open architecture instruments provide researchers a flexible tool for assay development that can advance their research goals,” said Patrick J. Balthrop, president and chief executive officer of Luminex. “Understanding the functional progression of a virus is extremely valuable information. Luminex is proud to support researchers, clinicians and biosurveillance professionals and their important work in the global effort to combat infectious diseases.”
Ebola virus disease is a severe, often fatal illness in humans. Outbreaks have a case fatality rate of up to 90% and occur primarily in remote villages in Central and West Africa, near tropical rainforests. The virus is transmitted to people from wild animals and spreads in the human population through human-to-human transmission. Fruit bats of the Pteropodidae family are considered to be the natural host of the Ebola virus. Severely ill patients require intensive supportive care. No licensed specific treatment or vaccine is available for use in people or animals.2 Because of the potential for human-to-human transmission, it is important to quickly identify infected individuals so proper precautions can be taken to limit spread of the disease.
References
1) http://globalbiodefense.com/2014/07/15/usamriid-providing-laboratory-support-ebola-outbreak/
2) Ebola virus disease. World Health Organization (Internet). Cited 2014 July. Available from: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs103/en/.
Source: Luminex press release, adapted. xMAP and MAGPIX are registered, protected terms of Luminex Corporation.




Filed Under: Detect & Identify, Industry News, Military Tagged With: Ebola, Mobile ResponseRelated Articles

Gates Foundation Commits $50 Million for Ebola ResponseScientists Uncover How Ebola Disables Immune ResponseUSAMRIID Scientist at Forefront of Developing Vaccine for EbolaUSAMRIID Providing Laboratory Support to Ebola Outbreak


Connect with Us
Our Current Sponsors
NanotechCBRNEFood SafetyA project funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) and led by the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University has produced a new surface … [More...]
Avon Protection, a global leader in advanced respiratory protection products, recently announced a new strategic partnership agreement with specialist CBRN consultancy and training services … [More...]
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is asking for potential breakthrough ideas on how to find disease-causing organisms in food – especially Salmonella in fresh produce.

The 2014 FDA … [More...]
News Scan
Texas healthcare worker tests positive for Ebola | Chimerix's brincidofovir given to Dallas, Nebraska Ebola patients | FDA Medical Countermeasures … [Read More...]Media Partners
Archives

Select Month
 October 2014 
 September 2014 
 August 2014 
 July 2014 
 June 2014 
 May 2014 
 April 2014 
 March 2014 
 February 2014 
 January 2014 
 December 2013 
 November 2013 
 October 2013 
 September 2013 
 August 2013 
 July 2013 
 June 2013 
 May 2013 
 April 2013 
 March 2013 
 February 2013 
 January 2013 
 December 2012 
 November 2012 
 October 2012 
 September 2012 
 August 2012 
 July 2012 
 June 2012 
 May 2012 
 April 2012 
 March 2012 
 February 2012 
 January 2012 
 March 2011 

About
About Us
Contact
Advertise
Subscribe

Channels
Biosurveillance
CBRNE
Decontamination
Detect & Identify
Food Safety
Military
Policy & Initiatives
Preparedness
Public Health
Therapeutics

Tools
Funding Portal
Resources

Hot Topics
Awards
Biomarkers
CBRN Equipment
Forensics
Mobile Response
Nanotechnology
POC Diagnostics
Vaccines

SITE
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
FAQ

© 2014 Stemar Media Group, LLC.





