Ebola’s spread brings host of other diseases in its wake | Data DiveEbola’s spread brings host of other diseases in its wake | Data Dive


























Data Dive




» See all analysis and opinion










Ebola’s spread brings host of other diseases in its wake

By Michael Corones
September 26, 2014


 Print 








africa | Ebola | virus | west africa 
Almost 3,000 West Africans have died from the current outbreak of Ebola virus, and on Tuesday, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warned that by January between 550,000 and 1.4 million people could be infected if nothing is done.
But the outbreak, which began in Guinea in March before spreading to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal, is only part of the terrifying picture. Last week, fear of Ebola caused locals to kill eight members of an Ebola education team, sick people are avoiding clinics, and the World Health Organization says that 208 of the 373 infected healthcare workers in the region have died from the virus.
As a result, ”the health services of West Africa have to a very large degree broken down,” according to Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust international health charity.
Experts predict a quadrupling in deaths caused by malaria, next year, and the collapse of immunization programs means that children are at a higher risk of diphtheria, polio and tuberculosis. Not to mention the impact to things like childbirth, diabetes and mental health.
So it’s a race against time. According to WHO director of strategy Dr. Christopher Dye, “If control efforts are only partly successful, Ebola viral disease in the human population could become ‘a permanent feature of life in West Africa.’”
This Reuters interactive graphic (click here for the interactive version for more info) shows the affected areas with up-to-date data on the number of cases and deaths; let’s hope the world community can staunch the flow before Ebola and the associated collateral damage become widespread humanitarian disasters.
Click image to see an interactive version of this graphic.






« Previous Post
Next Post »



















Comments
3 comments so far |  Comments RSS





Oct 1, 20143:03 pm UTC


Yes! Ebonics, Ebola, and Ecoli!
Posted by Screecher | Report as abusive



 

Oct 1, 20149:22 pm UTC


Where is the “host of other diseases”?  The headline doesn’t match the story.
Posted by 1LoneBystander | Report as abusive



 

Oct 3, 20144:28 pm UTC


Do not allow any flights in or out of these 3 world countries with Ebola
African governments needs to clean up after their own instead of wanting everyone else to do it.
Posted by halloween | Report as abusive



 






Post Your Comment









We welcome comments that advance the story through relevant opinion, anecdotes, links and data. If you see a comment that you believe is irrelevant or inappropriate, you can flag it to our editors by using the report abuse links. Views expressed in the comments do not represent those of Reuters. For more information on our comment policy, see http://blogs.reuters.com/fulldisclosure/2010/09/27/toward-a-more-thoughtful-conversation-on-stories/







 














 



Author Profile

Michael Corones
Michael Corones is a writer and editor based in New York City. His work has appeared on the websites for The Washington Post, The Denver Post, the San Jose Mercury News, the St. Paul Pioneer Press and the Los Angeles Daily News.  
» View Profile


 



 



Tag CloudAirlines
apple
Autos
Bank fines
Banks
charts
china
Climate Change
Consumer Spending
Debt
Earnings
Economy
Emerging Markets
Employment
Energy
Equals
Eurozone
Food
Gay Marriage
GDP
Health Care
Housing
Income Inequality
Inflation
In the News
Iraq
Jobs
Labor Market
Macro
Maps
Markets
Military
Natural disasters
Personal Finance
PMI
Politics
Public Health
recovery
Space
Sports
Tech
The Fed
Transportation
Twitter
Weather



Archives  Select Month  October 2014  (12)
 September 2014  (12)
 August 2014  (18)
 July 2014  (20)
 June 2014  (20)
 April 2014  (1)
 March 2014  (6)
 February 2014  (5)
 January 2014  (18)
 December 2013  (16)
 November 2013  (31)
 October 2013  (14)



 Recent Posts 

Finger pointing doesn’t bring back Iraq’s dead


A different kind of cold war


The problem with going back to work


Who gets what for Ebola relief


WhatsApp, Mr. Zuckerberg?


 



 








 












# Editors & Key Contributors



 











































