Infotainment: #Ebola: Wife Of Deceased Doctor In Port-Harcourt Moved To Lagos...Infotainment: #Ebola: Wife Of Deceased Doctor In Port-Harcourt Moved To Lagos...





























































Infotainment



NEWS * INFORMATION * OPINIONS * SPORTS* ENTERTAINMENT * MOTIVATIONAL TIPS * HEALTH TIPS*


























































































Friday, August 29








#Ebola: Wife Of Deceased Doctor In Port-Harcourt Moved To Lagos...











The Rivers State government says it has moved the wife of
the late Dr. Ike Enamoah, the doctor, who died of the suspected Ebola virus in
the state.



The state government said the widow of the deceased doctor
was moved to Lagos to enable workers in the state concentrate on the tracing of
contacts and placing them under surveillance.



The State Commissioner for Health, Sampson Parker made this
known while giving update of the case of Ebola in the state.



He said the number of contacts have increased to 160, adding
that the state government now has about two hundred personnel who have
volunteered their time and man-power to assist the state government.




“Only one case is symptomatic and that is the wife of the
late Doctor, Ike Enamoah. You know that she had close contact with him.



“I must tell you now that she is in Lagos; we decided to
move her to Lagos because of her emotions and we wanted to concentrate more on
contact tracing than tending after her.



“For now, the treatment centre in Lagos is less busy, but if
anyone falls ill, we have the technical know how to contain the situation”,
Parker said.





Parker, who said the state government has invested a lot
into capacity building for personnel, berated politicians for trying to play
politics with the current situation.



The Commissioner said the home of the infected doctor, his
hospital, the hotel that was secretly used for the treatment and the University
of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, UPTH, would all be decontaminated.



“The State Government has invested a lot in capacity
building, sourcing for materials, spending quality time to face this thing.



“We have lined up most of the contacts. We will
decontaminate all the places that are involved”.






Posted by



tia ajayi




at

21:42
















Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest












No comments:







Post a Comment
























Newer Post


Older Post

Home




Subscribe to:
Post Comments (Atom)










Want to share news and information, contact me :

E : tiaajayi@gmail.com.











Search This Blog


Loading...













My Blog List










Welcome to Linda Ikeji's Blog




1st set of winners win kitchen makeovers courtesy of Kate Henshaw


                      -
                    


Here you have it, the first set of winners of ‘Time out with Kate DVD’ 
promo have emerged. The prize presentation held last Friday at Ebeano 
Supermarket L...












Stella Dimoko Korkus / Gossip...It Only Happens Here!




President Jonathan's 7 Ministers Resign To Pursue Their Political Ambitions


                      -
                    

Barr. Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Onyebuchi Chukwu (Ebonyi), Musiliu Obanikoro 
(Lagos), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Emeka Wogu (Abia), 
Labaran ...












MojiDelano's Blog




Nollywood Stars Storm Port Harcourt For BON Awards


                      -
                    


It is yet one day to the 2014 edition of the Best of Nollywood Awards 
holding Thursday, October 16th, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, but the 
excitement a...












news360ng.com




"Pastor Chris Okotie Has Many Women"  Check Out Okotie's Reply To CAN


                      -
                    



Pastor Chris Okotie has replied the leadership of CAN who recently 
questioned his credibility as a Pastor and Christian after he asked for the 
resignatio...












MetroLens | Reliably Informative




The original Girlie O: Meet Patoranking’s sexy girlfriend (PHOTOS)


                      -
                    

Patoranking has unveiled the original ‘girlie o’, and yes, she’s very sexy 
and extremely hot. The dancehall star celebrated her on his Instagram page, 
wish...












Ayo Sogunro's Chaise




Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB | Love Letter from Ayo Sogunro


                      -
                    

Dearest Linda Ikeji, Re: To the Guys That Want To Take Down LIB Permit me 
the indulgence of a few …

Continue reading →


















About Me





tia ajayi




Tia is a cool young lady, conservative by nature. Passionate about Nigeria and liberal to different cultures, open minded and a football lover.

View my complete profile













































Popular Posts









BIZZARE: Bird Turns To Woman In Lagos After Colliding With Electric Wire.
    A bird reportedly turned into a woman this afternoon at  G-cappa Estate area of Ilupeju, Lagos,eyewitnesses at the scene, said  the bird...










HIV+ transsexual claims she had oral sex with O.J. Simpson in prison
    .         Jazmena Jameson, a former prostitute who is a transsexual and even said  to be HIV positive has claimed to having had  oral se...










Liberian Man That Took Ebola To US Dies..
            Thomas Eric Duncan,  the man with the first case of Ebola in the United States died yesterday, his health took a grave turn for ...










#Ebola: Health Worker In volved In Care Of US Index Case Infected.
        A health worker who helped in the treatment of Liberian man, Thomas Eric Duncan, who died on Wednesday October 8th, at the Texas Hea...










Kcee Calls Out Tiwa Savage To Respond To Marriage Crisis Rumours
        There has over the past few weeks been reports online that Mavin first lady Tiwa Savage was experiencing a marriage crisis and so fa...










Ex-Governor Alamieyeseigha's Son Found Dead In Dubai.
        Ex-Governor of Bayelsa state, Chief Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, has lost one of his sons, Oyoms, in Dubai, United Arab Emirate accordin...










Group Drags President Jonathan And CAN President Ayo Oritsejafor To Court Over $9.3m Arms Deal.
                    A group led by Dr Saidu Ahmed Dukawa, have dragged  President Goodluck Jonathan and the Christian Association of Nigeria...










Taliban Ambush Afghan Security Forces, Killing 14....
    Taliban insurgents in Afghanistan have killed at least 22 security force members in an ambush in Sar-e-Pol province north of Kabul, offi...










Top Pastor Arrested For Impregnating Member And Sponsoring An Abortion.
      A pastor in Enugu State has been arrested for allegedly impregnating a female member of his ministry and went a step further to force ...










PDP Stalwarts Beg Olusegun Obasanjo To Forgive Them.
         For anyone that's still in doubt, well PDP has confirmed what we all know, which is that ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo is no s...















Videos


Loading...













Google+ Badge



Blog Archive




Blog Archive
October (82)
September (179)
August (204)
July (240)
June (244)
May (270)
April (13)
March (39)
February (5)














You are number























































Oluwatosin Ajayi. Awesome Inc. template. Template images by molotovcoketail. Powered by Blogger.


































