BBC News - Paris shootings: Ahmed Merabet's killers 'pretend Muslims' says brother







BBC News - Paris shootings: Ahmed Merabet's killers 'pretend Muslims' says brother













        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Europe



Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
Latin America
Middle East
US & Canada












 
        Media playback is unsupported on your device       Paris shootings: Ahmed Merabet's killers 'pretend Muslims' says brother 10 January 2015 Last updated at 16:17 GMT   The men who were captured on camera killing a policeman outside the Charlie Hebdo offices were "pretend Muslims", the victim's brother has said. Ahmed Merabet was one of 17 people who lost their lives during three days of terror on the streets of Paris.Speaking during a news conference his brother Malek urged people not to avenge his death with further violence and reiterated that Islam was not about "terrorism or madness". He added: "My brother was Muslim and he was killed by people who pretend to be Muslims. They are terrorists, that's it". 
 Read more   France attacks: Huge marches for victims          


        Share this story        About sharing




Email




Facebook




Twitter




         Related   Most watched   Top stories      Related video / audio        0:56   Policeman's partner wants 'calm protests' 10 January 2015
        1:44   Candlelit vigils held around Europe 7 January 2015
        0:30   Video shows gunmen fleeing attack 7 January 2015
        0:15   How cartoonists reacted - 15 Secs 8 January 2015
        0:35   Footage of Kouachi siege ending 10 January 2015
        2:53   Charlie Hebdo editor remembered 9 January 2015
        1:00   Killed editor's partner blames France 8 January 2015
       Most watched       Top stories       World       UK       Business       Politics       Health       Science &amp Environment       Technology       Entertainment         





You're looking at our new site.
Learn more 


                    Tell us what you think                

                    Back to current site                











Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  





























     













