Anonymous blocks jihadist website in retaliation for Charlie Hebdo attack - Jan. 11, 2015  Anonymous blocks jihadist website in retaliation for Charlie Hebdo attack - Jan. 11, 2015    


 Homepage





U.S.



International







Log In


Log Out



 
 



CNNMoney






						Video
						





						Portfolio
						











 
  





						Home
						




						Business
						









						Markets
						









						Investing
						








						Economy
						









						Tech
						









						Personal Finance
						









						Small Business
						









						Luxury
						









						Media
					







Twitter


Facebook




 
  


Mobile
Security
Social
Innovation Nation
Enterprise
Tech30
Interactive
Video



       Cyber-Safe       Anonymous blocks jihadist website in retaliation for Charlie Hebdo attack  By David Goldman and Mark Thompson   @CNNTech  January 12, 2015: 11:16 PM ET               #JeSuisCharlie floods social media       NEW YORK (CNNMoney)  Hackers claiming to be with the group Anonymous say they have hacked a jihadist website in retaliation for the terror attack on French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.  The website ansar-alhaqq.net, a French jihadist site, currently redirects to Duck Duck Go, a search engine. Hackers using the Twitter handle @OpCharlieHebdo claimed responsibility.    

    Anonymous also named dozens of Twitter accounts that the hacktivist group says belong to jihadists.   The hackers posted the Twitter handles on Pastebin, a website that lets people post information anonymously online.   On Friday, Anonymous members announced hacking operation "#OpCharlieHebdo, declaring war on Islamic extremists.   Related: Anonymous declares war over Charlie Hebdo attack      In a video posted on YouTube, the group of hackers said they would track down websites and social media networks linked to terrorists, and take them down.   "We, Anonymous around the world, have decided to declare war on you the terrorists," it said.   Anonymous said the video was a message for "al Qaeda, the Islamic State and other terrorists," and promised to avenge the deaths in last week's attack.   Anonymous has hacked websites belonging to government departments, companies and other organizations.   The attack on Charlie Hebdo has prompted an outpouring of solidarity, sparking some news organizations to republish the magazine's most controversial cartoons -- including of the Prophet Mohammed.   On Sunday, millions of people, including world leaders, marched in an anti-terrorism rally in Paris. The French Mission to the United Nations called the massive gathering the largest in France's history.   The day was emotional and peaceful, a gesture of unity just days after Islamic extremists slaughtered 17 people.   --CNN's Margot Haddad contributed to this report.   Related: Retailers walk line with 'Je Suis Charlie' merchandise      First Published: January 11, 2015: 6:37 PM ET          
    

Most Popular




Patriots win hurts Super Bowl ticket prices





5 things Steve Jobs said Apple would never do - and Apple is doing





International Monetary Fund: The world economy is worse off than we thought




  ﻿




Search for Jobs



Millions of job openings!














Accounting
Finance
Marketing
Engineering
Management
Sales

See All Jobs  ▶









  Hot List         How you turn $80 into $25,000             Chevy's new electric cars             Watch this pen draw in 3D, mid-air             Golf wins Car of the Year             Worst gadgets of CES 2015     









CNNMoney Sponsors


































         



 


CNNMoney




 About CNNMoney

Contact Us
Advertise with Us
User Preferences
Closed Captioning



 Content

Business
Markets
Investing
Economy
Tech
Personal Finance
Small Business
Luxury
Media
Video
Interactive



 Site Tools

Site Map
Watchlist
Portfolio
Job Search
Real Estate Search
Mortgage and Savings Center
Calculators
Corrections
Market Data Alerts
News Alerts



 Stay Connected

My Account
Mobile Site & Apps
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
RSS Feeds
Newsletters
Tumblr
Google+





Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer.
Morningstar: © 2015 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2015. All rights reserved.
Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices © S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2015 and/or its affiliates.

 
		        © 2015 Cable News Network. A Time Warner Company. All Rights Reserved.  Terms under which this service is provided to you.  Privacy Policy.   .














     
   
   