BBC News - Viewpoint: The roots of the battle for free speech







BBC News - Viewpoint: The roots of the battle for free speech
















        For a better experience on your device, try our mobile site.    

                Accessibility links  Skip to content Skip to local navigation Accessibility Help      BBC iD      BBC iD             Settings     Sign out         BBC navigation   News   Sport   Weather   iPlayer   TV   Radio   More…         Search term:             




Magazine







Home
World
UK
England
N. Ireland
Scotland
Wales
Business
Politics
Health
Education
Sci/Environment
Technology
Entertainment & Arts


Video & Audio
Magazine
In Pictures
Also in the News
Have Your Say
Special Reports


























8 January 2015
Last updated at 11:25


Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print





Viewpoint: The roots of the battle for free speech


Voltaire: Often quoted advocate of freedom of expression


Continue reading the main story


Paris attacks


New leads


The victims


Three days of terror


France and freedom



 Historian Tom Holland was one of those who tweeted Charlie Hebdo's cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad in the wake of the deadly attack on the magazine's office. Here he explains the ramifications of defending free speech.
Religions are not alone in having their martyrs. On 1 July, 1766, in Abbeville in northern France, a young nobleman named Lefebvre de la Barre was found guilty of blasphemy. The charges against him were numerous - that he had defecated on a crucifix, spat on religious images, and refused to remove his hat as a Church procession went past. 
These crimes, together with the vandalising of a wooden cross on the main bridge of Abbeville, were sufficient to see him sentenced to death. Once La Barre's tongue had been cut out and his head chopped off, his mortal remains were burned by the public executioner, and dumped into the river Somme. Mingled among the ashes were those of a book that had been found in La Barre's study, and consigned to the flames alongside his corpse - the Philosophical Dictionary of the notorious philosopher, Voltaire. 
Voltaire himself, informed of his reader's fate, was appalled. "Superstition," he declared from his refuge in Switzerland, "sets the whole world in flames."
Two-and-a-half centuries on, and it is the notion that someone might be put to death for criticising a religious dogma that is likely to strike a majority of people in the West as the blasphemy. The values of free speech and toleration for which Voltaire campaigned all his life have become enshrined as the very embodiment of what Europeans, as a rule, most prize about their own civilisation. 

Continue reading the main story Tom Holland





Tom Holland is a writer, broadcaster and historian. His latest book, In The Shadow of the Sword, is an account of the history of Islam. 
He wrote and presented the documentary Islam: The Untold Story.

 Voltaire, with his mocking smile, still serves as their patron saint. In France, where secular ideals are particularly treasured, he is regularly invoked by those who feel the legacy of the Enlightenment to be under threat. 
When Philippe Val, the editor of Charlie Hebdo, published a book in 2008 defending the right of cartoonists to mock religious taboos, the title was telling. Reviens, Voltaire, Ils Sont Devenus Fous, he called it - Come Back, Voltaire, They Have Gone Insane. It was not Christians, though, whom Val was principally calling mad. 
Between the 18th Century and the 21st, the religious complexion of France had radically altered. Not only had the power of the Catholic Church gone into precipitous retreat, but some six million immigrants belonging to a very different faith had arrived in the country. 
Islam, unlike Catholicism, had inherited from the Jews a profound disapproval of figurative art. It also commemorated Muhammad - the prophet believed by his followers to have received God's ultimate revelation, the Koran - as the very model of human behaviour. Insults to him were traditionally held by Muslim jurists to be equivalent to disbelief - and disbelief was a crime that merited Hell.
Not that there was anything within the Koran itself that necessarily mandated it as a capital offence. "The truth is from your Lord, so whoever wills, let him believe; and whoever wills, let him disbelieve." Nevertheless, a story preserved in the oldest surviving biography of Muhammad implied a rather more punitive take. So punitive, indeed, that some Muslim scholars - who are generally most reluctant to countenance the possibility that the earliest biography of their prophet might be unreliable - have gone so far as to question its veracity. 


Pens are laid in a pile in tribute to the victims of the Paris attack

The story relates the fate of Asma bint Marwan, a poet from the Prophet's home town of Mecca. After she had mocked Muhammad in her verses, he cried out, "Who will rid me of Marwan's daughter?" - and sure enough, that very night, she was killed by one of his followers in her own bed. The assassin, reporting back on what he had done, was thanked personally by the Prophet. "You have helped both God and His messenger!"
"Ecrasez l'infâme," Voltaire famously urged his admirers: "Crush what is infamous". Islam, too, makes the same demand. The point of difference, of course, is over how "l'infâme" is to be defined. To the cartoonists of Charlie Hebdo, who in 2011 published an edition with a swivel-eyed Muhammad on the cover, just as earlier they had portrayed Jesus as a contestant on I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here, and Pope Benedict holding aloft a condom at Mass, it is the pretensions of authority wherever they may be found - in politics quite as much as in religion. 
To the gunmen who yesterday launched their murderous attack on the Charlie Hebdo office, it is the mockery of a prophet whom they feel should exist beyond even a hint of criticism. Between these two positions, when they are prosecuted with equal passion and conviction on both sides, there cannot possibly be any accommodation.



It was the Salman Rushdie affair that served as the first symptom of this. Since then, like a dull toothache given to periodic flare-ups, the problem has never gone away. I myself had first-hand experience of just how intractable it can be in 2012, with a film I made for Channel 4. Islam: The Untold Story explored the gathering consensus among historians that much of what Muslims have traditionally believed about the life of Muhammad is unlikely to be strict historical fact - and it provoked a firestorm of death threats. 
Unlike Charlie Hebdo, I had not set out to give offence. I am no satirist, and I do not usually enjoy hurting people's feelings. Nevertheless, I too feel that some rights are worthy of being defended - and among them is the freedom of historians to question the origin myths of religions. That was why, when I heard the news from Paris yesterday, I chose to do something I would never otherwise have done, and tweet a Charlie Hebdo cartoon of Muhammad. 
The BBC, by contrast, has decided not to reproduce the cartoon for this article. Many other media organisations - though not all - have done the same. I refuse to be bound by a de facto blasphemy taboo.
While under normal circumstances I am perfectly happy not to mock beliefs that other people hold dear, these are far from normal circumstances. As I tweeted yesterday, the right to draw Muhammad without being shot is quite as precious to many of us in the West as Islam presumably is to the Charlie Hebdo killers. 
We too have our values - and if we are not willing to stand up for them, then they risk being lost to us. When it comes to defining l'infâme, I for one have no doubt whose side I am on.
Tom Holland is a writer, broadcaster and historian. His latest book, In The Shadow of the Sword, is an account of the history of Islam. He wrote and presented the documentary Islam: The Untold Story.
Subscribe to the BBC News Magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox




More on This Story


Paris attacks
	      



Features and Analysis



New leads

Investigators examine several new leads as they attempt to piece together what happened before and after the Paris attacks which left 17 dead.




The victims




Three days of terror




France and freedom




Who sent gunmen?




Jews look to Israel




’I am not Charlie’




Jewish and French




Divisions persist




Who is Boumeddiene?




Remembering cartoonists




Gunmen




'Unprecedented terror'




Eyewitnesses




Defiant editor




France rallies




Cartoonists' response







Background



Muhammad images: Always banned?




Europe's struggle with Islamism




Incendiary magazine







Video



One million Parisians cry for freedom  Watch

Huge crowds and some 40 world leaders have gathered in Paris for a unity march, after 17 people were killed during three days of deadly attacks.




Marseille Muslims condemn violence Watch




Unity in the suburbs of Paris  Watch




Video 'shows supermarket gunman' Watch




Crowds unite in applause in Paris Watch




World leaders link arms to march Watch















Share this page


Delicious


Digg


Facebook


reddit


StumbleUpon


Twitter


Email


Print






















Top Stories



Jihadist admits terror offences


AirAsia plane 'climbed too fast'


Nurse 'poisoned patients at random'


Japan PM Abe in 'IS hostages' vow


Tributes to Corrie's Anne Kirkbride









Features




Old news

How Page Three fell out of step with the times  	
				  




Being Deirdre

Anne Kirkbride's life as a Coronation Street legend 	
				  




People power

Could the UK scrap MPs and let everyone vote on laws?  	
				  




Counting the dead 

Is is true that 95% of victims of terrorism are Muslim? 	
				  




Captive audience

Can hidden messages in films really make you buy products? 	
				  






Most Popular
Shared




1: Sun 'drops topless Page Three images'



2: Coronation Street's Anne Kirkbride dies



3: India's tiger population up 30% 



4: Why Finnish babies sleep in boxes



5: Europe 'faces political earthquakes'



Read




1: 
    AirAsia flight QZ8501 'climbed too fast'  



2: 
    Sun newspaper drops Page Three topless pictures - Times  



3: 
    Japan PM Shinzo Abe in Islamic State 'hostages' vow  



4: 
    Anne Kirkbride, Coronation Street's Deirdre Barlow, dies aged 60  



5: 
    Tributes paid to Coronation Street's Deirdre, Anne Kirkbride  



6: 
    BBC Democracy Day: Live events, discussion and debate  



7: 
    Fred Talbot trial: Ex-TV weatherman 'was sex abuse chancer'  



8: 
    Stepping Hill murders accused nurse 'poisoned at random'  



9: 
    Maryam Najafian killed in Kelvingrove Park sledging fall  



10: 
    Why Finnish babies sleep in cardboard boxes  
Last updated 4th June 2013




Video/Audio




2: Russian cat 'saves abandoned baby' Watch



3: Bill Roache pays tribute to Anne Watch



4: Rusting ship in the South China Sea Watch



5: Surprise! You could be among richest 1% Watch



6: Page Three modelling 'my choice' Watch



7: BBC News Channel Watch



8: Taylor Swift praise for lip-sync cop Watch



9: Inside an aeroplane 'black box' lab Watch



10: MPs brawl in Nepal's parliament Watch





























Services

 Mobile
 Connected TV
 News feeds
 Alerts
 E-mail news



About BBC News

Editors' blog
BBC College of Journalism
News sources
Editorial Guidelines




    BBC links    Mobile siteTerms of UseAbout the BBC     PrivacyAccessibility Help     CookiesContact the BBC     Parental Guidance       Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read more. This page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (CSS) enabled. While you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience. Please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (CSS) if you are able to do so.  
































    













