Al Jazeera emails reveal staff are split over Charlie Hebdo attack coverage | Daily Mail Online
Al Jazeera emails reveal staff are split over Charlie Hebdo attack coverage | Daily Mail Online



























 













 Home




 U.K.



 
 

News




 Sports




 U.S. Showbiz




 Australia




 Femail




 Health




 Science




 Money




 Video




 Travel




 Columnists







News Home


Arts


Headlines


Pictures


Most read


News Board


Wires



My Profile
Logout



Login













Feedback








DailyMail






 






 show ad

























	263
      
shares












Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations on luxury yacht in the Caribbean with ex-DC mayor Adrian Fenty





Technology tycoon, wife and their four grandchildren confirmed dead in 'suspicious' fire at $9million Annapolis waterfront mansion





How much coffee do you drink and how often do you read? The simple questions that form part of new 20 minute test that assesses chance of developing Alzheimer's





New Ebola scare in US: Health worker returning from Seirra Leone pulled off United flight at Newark after vomiting on the plane





Defiant Obama to use State of the Union to embarrass Republicans with tax increases benefiting the middle class he knows they'll never pass





AirAsia jet QZ8501 'climbed at abnormal speed and then stalled' before it crashed, reveals Indonesian Transport Minister 





How doctors keep young: Their biggest secret? They will do anything to steer clear of other doctors! Learn from them by avoiding medicines and ops you don't need





Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney see their ratings fall as they run to the political center in run-up to White House campaigns





EXCLUSIVE PICTURE: The bully shamed by award-winning author who tracked him down 40 years after torment that ruined his childhood





Etan Patz's parents prepare to face their son's accused killer in court after spending decades pursuing a different man





Mom jailed after she injected saline into her critically ill nine-year-old son's IV while she was alone in his hospital room





Is this alien communication? Mystery cosmic burst captured LIVE - and we could be closer to understanding its meaning





No check-in desk, a room key vending machine and free drinks at happy hour: Sir Richard Branson launches Virgin's first city hotel





How teenager who became poster girl for racial intolerance in 1957 eventually became friends with her black classmate... only for them to fall out again years later 





PIERS MORGAN: The American Sniper is a hero not a coward - he did his job and his job was to kill people





'Thank you for being willing to watch the hard stuff': American Sniper's widow pays tribute to audiences and reveals how she breaks down because of the overwhelming support





Seth Rogen hits out at blockbuster American Sniper likening it to a 'Nazi propaganda film'





Revealed: How Bradley Cooper consumed 8,000 calories a day and ate every 55 minutes to gain 40lbs for America Sniper





'I want to be 100% plastic': Human Ken doll risks blindness to have veins in his forehead removed 





Passengers evacuated from TWO Delta Air Lines planes at New York's JFK airport as authorities investigated pipe bomb threat





One construction worker killed and a driver injured after overpass collapses in Ohio





Vanderbilt rape trial jury watches video sent of alleged crime which 'shows one player giggling and egging on sex assault with a water bottle' 





Baby boy dies after brother, five, accidentally shoots him in the head with a revolver at family home





ISIS executioner 'Jihadi John' threatens to kill Japanese hostages unless they receive $200m in 72-hour ultimatum after their Prime Minister pledged the same amount to countries fighting ISIS




Previous
Next








Emails leaked from Middle Eastern broadcaster Al Jazeera reveal how staff are split over its coverage Charlie Hebdo attackEmails reportedly linked by Al Jazeera staff show conflicting viewpointsSome brand satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo as 'racist' and 'extremist'Others defend right to publish cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad By

Stephanie Linning for MailOnline


Published:
  15:05 EST, 10 January 2015

 | 
Updated:
  04:14 EST, 12 January 2015





















263
shares

 
         118
View  comments



A series of emails  leaked by journalists at Al Jazeera English reveal a divide among staff regarding the news organisation's coverage of the Charlie Hebdo massacre.In the exchange, some staff members brand the satirical magazine as 'racist' and 'extremist,' over the publication of controversial cartoons depicting the Prophet Muhammad.While others defended Charlie Hebdo's decision, saying that it needed to be done to ensure that the 'violent' do not have control over 'liberal civilization'.Scroll down for video  
'Alienating': One of the emails urged staff to discuss the potentially divisive 'Je suis Charlie' slogan. The phrase has been used to unite those standing in solidarity with the victims. Above, rally in Clermont-FerrandThe publication of the exchange comes as the first pictures of three of the four hostages killed in yesterday's kosher supermarket siege in Paris have emerged. Meanwhile, there are reports that the wife of the Paris supermarket gunman - named France's most wanted woman - may already be in Syria.In an email sent out to staff on Thursday, London-based editor and executive producer Salah-Aldeen Khadr, suggests a list of questions that should guide the channel's coverage of the attack.


RELATED ARTICLES

Previous
1
Next






Hacker group Anonymous 'declare war on jihadists' after...



A nation in mourning: Thousands pay tribute to terror...



Pictured: Two of the hostages shot by Islamic extremist...



Brother of Muslim police officer executed in the street by...





Share this article
Share
263 shares



He starts by explaining that the email is intended to ensure that the channel's 'coverage is the best it can be', according to the National Review, who has published the emails in full. Khadr urged his employees to question if the terrorist attack was 'really an attack on free speech,' asking whether an 'attack by 2-3 guys' on 'a controversial magazine' was equal to a 'civilizational attack on European values'. He goes on to ask staff members to discuss whether 'I am Charlie' - a slogan used to unite those standing in solidarity with the terror victims - was 'alienating', creating an 'us and them' mentality.   
 'Extremist': London-based editor and executive producer Salah-Aldeen Khadr suggests framing the attack on the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris, pictured above, as a 'clash of extremist fringes'




Police storm print works and kill Charlie Hebdo gunmen













Khadr explains that people can be 'against CH [Charlie Hebdo] racism and also against murdering people'. Finally, he states that the massacre should be viewed as 'a clash of extremist fringes', apparently referring to the Islamic fundamentalists on one side and the team at Charlie Hebdo on the other. The email sparked a heated debate among its recipients. Just hours after it was sent, U.S.-based correspondent Tom Ackerman responded by quoting an excerpt of a New York Times article by Ross Douthat.  'If a large enough group of someone is willing to kill you for saying something, then it's something that almost certainly needs to be said It read: 'If a large enough group of someone is willing to kill you for saying something, then it's something that almost certainly needs to be said, because otherwise the violent have veto power over liberal civilization.'This prompted a response from Qatar-based Mohamed Vall Salem, who reported for Al Jazeera's Arab-language channel before joining its English wing in 2006.He said that 'what Charlie Hebdo did was not free speech', adding that 'it was an abuse of free speech in my opinion'. He urged colleagues to take another look at the cartoons, explaining it was not 'what they said' but 'how they said it'.Ending his email, he wrote: 'I condemn those heinous killings, but I'M NOT CHARLIE'.Senior Paris correspondent Jacky Rowland wrote a simple response to her colleagues, saying '#journalismisnotacrime.' The exchange concludes with a response from Roving reporter Omar Al Saleh: 'First I condemn the brutal killing. But I AM NOT CHARLIE.''Journalism is not a crime... insultism is not journalism.. and not doing journalism properly is crime.'A spokesman from Al Jazeera told MailOnline: 'We have arguably the most diverse newsroom in the world, and the robustness of our internal discussions that flow from this are a great strength. 'Viewers judge us on our actual output - on the horrific story in Paris our coverage has been first class, relaying events in real time, all the while providing expert context and analysis from across the spectrum.' 

Read more:

'I AM NOT CHARLIE': Leaked Newsroom Emails Reveal Al Jazeera Fury over Global Support for Charlie Hebdo | National Review Online





Share or comment on this article

























263shares














MOST WATCHED NEWS VIDEOS

Previous
1
2
3
Next

 



Jane Fonda speaks out against Vietnam War in 1972





The real Peter Griffin? Mr Franzee's incredible impression





Moment man kicks down apartment door brandishing machete





The best of friends! Seal and dog snuggle up on beach





Protective pooch cuddles his poorly pal in heartwarming...





Scene of nightmare truck pileup on icy freeway in Oregon





The new Golden Gate Bridge zipper trucks in action





Caught on camera! Twerking girls dramatic fall from moving...





Journalist Owen Thomas filmed grim conditions on BA First...





This Delaware police officer can really 'Shake it off'





Baby with Albinism sees mother for the first time with...





Wild fox approaches fisherman for an adorable close-up























'I made a huge, huge mistake that will haunt me to my...





Technology tycoon and his family unaccounted for as his...





'Our lives aren't like Homeland or Argo!' Instagram's Rich...





'I don't know why you're out for blood... I'm not paying':...





Tiger Woods' missing tooth was KNOCKED OUT by camera during...





Step-mother screams her innocence before being beheaded for...





The world's deadliest sniper: As a gripping film of his life...





Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations...





Seth Rogen hits out at blockbuster American Sniper likening...





Pictured in mangled wreckage that saved his life: Man who...





Co-founder of pioneering social network Plaxo charged with...





College basketball star, 21, found dead in her dorm room...




MOST READ NEWS

Previous
Next

●
●
●


 















Comments (118)

                                	Share what you think
                                







Newest




Oldest




Best rated




Worst rated




 View all



The comments below have been moderated in advance.




                        The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
                    


We are no longer accepting comments on this article.


Who is this week's top commenter?
Find out now







More top stories










Bing


Site
Web


Enter search term:
Search


























Like
DailyMail




Follow
MailOnline




Follow
DailyMail




+1
DailyMail







 
 
Femail Today







          Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations on luxury yacht with former DC mayor Adrian Fenty
          
          The 51-year-old was spotted with Fenty, 44
        








          EXCLUSIVE: Today show star Hoda Kotb's secret boyfriend is Manhattan financier Joel Schiffman... and she says marriage could be on the cards
          









          Rallying around Bruce! Jenner sits between daughters Kendall and Kylie as Kim, Khloe and Kourtney join in for a family portrait
          
          Divorced Kris last year
        








          'Kiss my a**!' Defiant Amber Rose proudly puts her derriere on show riding a jet ski... as she hits back at critics telling her to cover up
          
          Proud of her curves
        








          'Mia Farrow and her black children': Actress ridiculed after phone reveals awkward search term used to find a picture of daughter 
          
          Photo of Quincy Farrow
        













          'I want to be 100% plastic': Human Ken doll risks blindness to have veins in his forehead removed 
          
          Justin Jedlica has had 190 procedures
        








          EXCLUSIVE: Grandma of Boyhood star is a 69-year-old hippie who lives on a rusting school bus with 5 dogs and 17 chickens
          
          Prefers the film Titanic
        








          Can an average guy get buff in EIGHT weeks? FEMAIL challenges four busy men, giving them a personal trainer and diet plans (but it's not as easy as you'd think) 
          









           It's a girl! Ali Larter and Hayes MacArthur share the first photo of their newborn daughter... and her name is a celebrity favorite 
          
          They're proud parents
        








          That's cheeky! Kelly Bensimon shows off her underboob in a khaki bikini as she drinks cocktails from a pineapple in Florida
          
          Real Housewives star
        











          Are A-list stars FINALLY growing old gracefully? Kim Cattrall, Courteney Cox and Jennifer Aniston among celebs daring to show wrinkles on red carpet
          









          Beach buddies! Kristen Stewart and close friend Alicia Cargile are still inseparable as they spend the day together in Malibu
          
          More than just friends?
        








          Patricia Arquette 'to testify in divorce trial on behalf of ex-boyfriend Paul Rossi with their son Enzo' 
          
          Patricia dated Rossi in the 1980s
        








          Jessica Lowndes lounges in the pool wearing a strapless bikini... as her co-star Jon Lovitz takes photos of her in Hawaii
          
          Former 90210 star
        








          That's not very nice, Matt Lauer! Today co-host posts unflattering photo of Savannah Guthrie at 4am
          
          Tweeted before filming
        








          'Stop bullying him!': Russell Brand defends Bruce Jenner as speculation about the reality star's more feminine appearance continues to grow
          









          Sultry starlet! Liv Tyler oozes old Hollywood glamour as she dons a sheer bralet in seductive black and white snap
          
          Photographed before her pregnancy
        








          Teresa Giudice is visited for the first time in prison by husband Joe and their daughters 
          
          The Real Housewives Of New Jersey star began sentence on January 5
        








          Jennifer Lopez puts her cleavage on display in a plunging silk top and satin pajama pants on The Tonight Show
          
          Promoting her film The Boy Next Door
        








          Kenya Moore tells Brandi Glanville her ex Eddie Cibrian left her for 'younger and prettier women' in an ugly verbal attack on Celebrity Apprentice
          












          Family first: Cristiano Ronaldo puts recent love split behind him and spends time with his son... amid rumors he's already moved on from Irina Shayk
          









          Moving on already? Cristiano Ronaldo linked to stunning Spanish reporter after splitting from model ex Irina Shayk
          
          Dated Irina for five years 
        








          Revealed: How Bradley Cooper consumed 8,000 calories a day and ate every 55 minutes to gain 40lbs for America Sniper
          
          Dedicated to his craft
        








          A birthday treat for Sophie! The Countess of Wessex celebrates her 50th with a slice of cake, a bunch of flowers... and a visit to a center for tropical diseases
          









          It's over! Elizabeth Olsen and fiancé Boyd Holbrook end ten-month engagement... as she is seen without her ring
          
          They got engaged in March 2014
        








          'I looked fat': Kim Kardashian reveals her pregnancy insecurities as she discusses life in front of the camera as a mother 
          
          Had a difficult pregnancy
        








          Simply timeless! Adriana Lima and Karolina Kurkova display their supermodel figures in chic LBDs as they attend luxury watch event in Switzerland
          









          Award-winning style! Emily Blunt accentuates her slim figure in a demure fitted dress as she attends high-end watch party
          
          Actress was in Geneva
        








          Is there anything she can't do? Five-time Oscar nominee Julianne Moore will design the green room at this year's ceremony
          
          Working with designers
        








          Keeping it brief: David Beckham strips out of his smart suit to show off his toned physique in boxers for fashion campaign
          
          Posed for H&M
        








          EXCLUSIVE:'I hadn't see the original films in full before I was cast!': Domhnall Gleeson talks Star Wars, Ex Machina and working with Alicia Vikander
          









          'My ace from day one': Khloe Kardashian posts a flashback picture of her brother Rob
          
          His struggles with his weight have been well documented
        








          Ti amo! Ansel Elgort and high school sweetheart Violetta Komyshan rekindle their romance at Milan Men's Fashion Week
          
          Relationship is back on
        








          On to the next one! Beyonce and Jay Z put their LA house hunt 'on ice' after being outbid on $70m Beverly Hills mansion by billionaire Minecraft creator
          









          Wentworth Miller is a silver fox as he sports a new salt and pepper buzzcut on the set of The Flash in Vancouver
          
          Still looks youthful despite his grey
        








          Dressing for tonight? Jennifer Lopez sexes up her daytime wardrobe by slipping into a fur-trimmed coat and skintight leather trousers
          









          Still got it! Sophia Loren, 80, defies her age in a glamorous low cut scarlet dress as she attends event in Germany
          
          She's ageing gracefully
        








          Billy Crystal says there is too much of ALL sex on TV after criticism for saying gay scenes had gone 'too far' and shows 'shove it in our face' 
          
          He doesn't want to see it
        








          Paula Patton, 39, displays her natural beauty as she steps out make-up free after working up a sweat at the gym
          
          A natural stunner
        








          'Thank you for believing in me!' Lady Gaga posts a snap of her morning Pilates routine along with a shout-out to her trainer
          
          She's been working hard
        








          Meghan Trainor rocks a cute LBD and heels as she arrives in London... and confirms she's recording a 'love song' with One Direction's Harry Styles
          









          'I was like 40 minutes late': Lena Dunham reveals she almost missed her first date with long-term boyfriend Jack Antonoff
          
          Not fashionably late
        








          Has Paris got a new toyboy? Hilton, 33, cuddles up to 18-year-old model Jordan Barrett just months after splitting from River Viiperi, 23
          









          Not just a pretty place! Rosie Huntington-Whiteley's model body sizzles in bikini-clad paradise snap
          
          The 27-year-old model is dating Jason Statham
        








          'The sass!' Taylor Swift looks leggy in a coat and mini skirt... as she tweets her delight at policeman's viral Shake It Off lip dub
          
          Self proclaimed cat lover 
        








          Justin Bieber makes a bold style statement in a garish bright blue and orange shorts as he goes shopping in Los Angeles
          
          He's got cash to burn
        








          Jimmy Kimmel crashes the Bachelor by creating awkward dates for Chris Soules and the remaining ladies
          
          The comedian jumped in the hot tub 
        








          Beyonce takes Blue Ivy to the park for a family play date but Solange looks bored 
          
          Blue Ivy is only three years old but she's living quite an adventurous life
        








          Jessica Chastain is Gothic and glamorous at the A Most Violent Year photocall in a black tea dress, opaque tights and heels
          
          Actress was in London
        








          Not her best angle! Bella Thorne shocks fans with 'fat face' photo... but thankfully her new look is down to photo-distorting app
          
          Had fun with the app
        








          Pregnant Hilaria Baldwin entertains daughter Carmen as she and Alec enjoy a family day out
          
          The 31-year-old mom had a busy day 
        








          A super day out! Alessandra Ambrosio and Lily Aldridge are model moms as they treat their children to a trip to Disneyland
          
          Doting moms are BFFs
        








          Back to normal? Kendra Wilkinson and husband Hank Baskett act like a happy family while out with their son in Los Angeles
          
          After cheating scandal
        








          Giving her skin a rest! Behati Prinsloo is a bare-faced beauty as she reveals her sheer black bra while jetting out of LA
          
          Dressed down glam
        








          Let's celebrate, baby! Pregnant Zooey Deschanel marks her birthday on a day trip with Jacob Pechenik
          
          Pair met working on the film, Rock The Casbah
        








          Working up an appetite! Jennifer Garner gorges on pizza while at the Clippers game with daughter Violet
          
          Has a healthy appetite
        








          Amber Rose goes for all-out Jessica Rabbit glamour as she slips into a dangerously low-cut curve-hugging scarlet dress in a sexy selfie
          









          Gemma Arterton smiles sweetly as she cloaks her curves in a warming olive-green coat ahead of TV appearance
          
          Former Bond girl
        








          Double denim Dakota! Johnson shows off her street style in a chambray shirt and skinny jeans for lunch with a friend in LA
          
          Outing with male friend
        








          Sharon Osbourne steps out for some retail therapy with her pooch in LA... after revealing she's 'terrified' of dying from Alzheimer's
          
          Her dad had the disease
        








          Rosie Huntington-Whiteley displays a generous portion of her taut tummy as she models for Australian designers in ELLE
          
          Statuesque bombshell 
        








          British pop star Ellie Goulding teams an emerald green sports luxe jacket with super-skinny jeans as she braves the London cold for radio appearance
          









          You're going to need a bigger towel! Amber Rose struggles to contain her curves as she hits Miami Beach in yet another string bikini
          
          Kept curves under wraps
        








          'Thank you for being willing to watch the hard stuff': American Sniper's widow pays tribute to audiences as the film breaks box office records
          









          'I just love having a daughter!' Christina Milian shares the joys of raising a girl with pregnant Tamera Mowry-Housley
          
          Expecting a baby girl
        








          'She is definitely my type': Calum Best admits his attraction to glamour model Cami Li as flirting heats up between the pair on UK Celebrity Big Brother
          









          Rachel Zoe brings the Seventies back in a black fur coat and bell-bottomed jeans while enjoying an outing with son Skyler
          
          She's a celebrity stylist 
        








          Mick Jagger starts fashion scholarship in honor of his late girlfriend L'Wren Scott who was described as an 'extraordinary designer'
          









          Joan Rivers hailed as 'legendary' by Donald Trump in her final ever TV appearance on Celebrity Apprentice
          
          She was back on TV on Monday night
        








          Size 20 mother who was too fat to cuddle her son swaps takeaways for salads and drops 112lbs in seven months ... and becomes a personal trainer
          









          Gordon Ramsay loses his court battle over father-in-law using autograph machine to sign him up for $900,000-a-year rent at London pub
          









          New romance? Dave Franco grips on to a small bouquet of flowers as he embraces a mystery female in LA
          
          James Franco's brother looked cosy
        








          'Why is Iggy Azalea the punching bag?': Charlamagne defends Australian star against criticisms of being 'fake'... after slamming her rapping ability
          









          Doting dad! Jimmy Kimmel tends to his precious baby daughter while out to lunch with wife Molly McNearney
          
          Welcomed their first child in July
        








          Working up a sweat! Brooke Burke shows off her lean pins in skintight leggings as she hits cycling class with her daughter
          
          Fitness guru in Malibu
        








          Hats off to them! Kate Hudson and son Ryder coordinate in matching headwear as they volunteer for charity
          
          The actress gives back to the less fortunate too
        








          Jaime Pressly 'sues former accountant for $900K' after 'bad investments left her owing hundreds of thousands in back taxes'
          









          Mother's love! Tammin Sursok shares an affectionate moment with her gorgeous little girl Phoenix as she rocks a pair of tight leather trousers
          









          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE Single and ready to mingle! Pert Gwyneth Paltrow, 42, slips into a bikini and parades the results of her VERY strict January detox
          









          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE Shirtless Justin Bieber shows off tattooed torso... as he kicks back in his garden with Kendall Jenner after wild night of partying
          









          'I've always wanted a baby girl!' Simon Cowell's ex Terri Seymour reveals the sex of her unborn child
          
          She was in a six year relationship with Cowell
        








          Will Obama appear in Sharknado 3? Tara Reid expresses her hopes for the President and Harry Potter star Daniel Radcliffe making a cameo in the third film
          









          She might be 50 but Sophie looks younger than ever... so how IS she doing it? Secrets of Britain's Countess of Wessex' glowing complexion revealed
          









          Not exactly blending in! Gwen Stefani attracts attention in trendy military fatigues for an acupuncture visit
          
          Not many people can pull off her style
        








          PICTURE EXCLUSIVE Just rolled out of bed? Miley Cyrus and Patrick Schwarzenegger sport scruffy hair as they strip off for a hike in Hawaii
          
          They are inseparable
        








          'Time for a cleanse!' Scott Disick plugs a tea detox... days after his wild partying in Aspen hit headlines
          
          Reportedly 'racked up over $2,000 hotel bill'
        








          'He will make a full recovery': Star Wars' Chewbacca star Peter Mayhew is hospitalized for pneumonia
          
          Canceled appearance at a comic shop
        








          Amy Smart goes make-up free as she takes her cute bulldog pup out for an afternoon stroll
          
          Blonde actress is besotted with her dog
        








          Pretty in pink! Ivanka Trump looks chic in a pastel dress and navy coat as she promotes Celebrity Apprentice on the Today Show
          
          Own line of clothing
        








          Secrets of an A-list body: Mark Wahlberg's super-fit torso 
          
          We reveal how to get the physiques of the stars. This week we focus on the 43-year-old
        








          Fifty Shades Of Grey's Dakota Johnson stars in brooding Vogue video short as she lounges around on sofa for cover shoot with fashion bible
          
          In February's issue 
        








          Ouch, that looks painful! Melanie Griffith turns up at the gym with a nasty sore on her nose
          
          The 57-year-old made no attempt to hide the blemish
        








          Busted! Lindsay Lohan caught out as reality TV show reveals she hung up during an interview with Australian radio hosts
          
          Known for bad behavior
        








          Barefaced beauty! Victoria's Secret model Shanina Shaik shares a glowing make-up free selfie while relaxing in bed
          
          Happy to be free
        








          She looks purrfect! Katie Holmes wears her favorite feline flats on a jaunt to Berlin Fashion Week
          
          The Dawson's Creek actress was all smiles
        








          'He always tried to be inspirational and help others': Angelina Jolie praises Louis Zamperini in a new behind-the-scenes video for Unbroken
          









          Bravo reality star's late tycoon boyfriend's coffin arrives for his funeral - more than a MONTH after he fell to his death from balcony of his London flat 
          









          Sibling revelry! Jennifer Lopez and her younger sister Lynda don similar fur-hooded coats for NYC stroll
          
          Both hard-working single mothers
        








          'I have lost the ability to read or write': Yolanda Foster reveals her battle with Lyme disease is far from over 
          
          Blogged about debilitating condition 
        








          No butts about it! Iggy Azalea shows off her beautiful booty in itty bitty shorts as she runs into Milk Studios
          
          Looked as if the rapper had just got out of bed 
        








          John Travolta explains why he is hitting gym in the early hours as he wears his hairpiece (days after showing off naturally thinning mane with 3am selfie)










          Hiding something, Tiger? Woods covers up missing front tooth with a mask as he surprises girlfriend Lindsey Vonn after her record-breaking win
          









          'He taunts you': Alexander O'Neal blasts Perez Hilton and reveals he quit UK reality show Celebrity Big Brother because of 'unbearable' stress
          









          Bobbi Kristina covers up in a blanket as she heads out with husband Nick Gordon amid controversy over Whitney Houston biopic
          
          Mother died 3-years ago
        








          'I'm the number one snubbed!' Jennifer Aniston jokes about missing out on Oscar nomination as Ellen DeGeneres spoofs her recent topless photo 
          









          Courtney Stodden goes make-up free as she strips down to skimpy underwear for a suggestive selfie while watching a football match
          









          Nothing like a good book! Emma Roberts looks cute in a blue beanie while catching up on her reading at an organic cafe 
          
          Avid reader was in LA 
        








          Selena Gomez writhes around in bed in lingerie during a video chat with her rumored new beau Zedd
          
          Appeared together at Golden Globes
        








          Woman who was attacked as a child with rocks by a teen Mark Wahlberg in racially-motivated attack does NOT want him pardoned
          
          Attack in Boston in 1986 
        








          Johnny Depp is reunited with the cocaine dealer he played in Blow following his release from 20 years in prison
          
          Hit film from 2001
        








          United front! Johnny Depp and Amber Heard can't take their eyes off each other as they attend Mortdecai premiere following split rumors
          









          He's got his hands full! Will Arnett plays with son Archie as Netflix announces his new series Flaked
          
          Former Arrested Development star
        








          Another day in Taradise! Tara Reid celebrates signing on for Sharknado 3 with a bikini break in Miami
          
          Star celebrating Syfy's latest shark sequel 
        








          Jessa Duggar joins her husband and 13 of her family members to march in pro-life parade - but there's no sign of her pregnant sister Jill
          
          Headed to Little Rock
        








          Colin Farrell think it's too easy for heterosexuals to become parents, writes EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE
          
          Angry his brother couldn't marry boyfriend
        








          Former Playboy Playmate Shauna Sand looks visibly upset amid police drama
          
          Playboy model looked distraught during encounter with cops
        








          The American Sniper is a hero not a coward - he did his job and his job was to kill people
          
          PIERS MORGAN: it wasn't Chris Kyle who decided to invade Iraq
        








          Michael Moore backtracks and insists his comments calling snipers cowards was NOT about American Sniper Chris Kyle
          
          Claimed he liked film
        








          Pregnant Shakira shows off her baby bump alongside partner Gerard Pique and son Milan in heartwarming family portrait for charity campaign 
          









          Moving on: Sofia Vergara's ex fiance Nick Loeb spends an evening with Vikings star Katheryn Winnick
          
          Engaged to Modern Family star for two years
        








          Revealed: NeNe Leakes' son spent part of 2014 in jail and in rehab for violating probation
          
          Son of star arrested for driving offense
        








          Russell Crowe plants a tender kiss on overwhelmed teen's head after she presents hand-painted portrait to actor at The Water Diviner premiere
          









          Good Genes Never Die! Pierce Brosnan cuts a casual figure as he steps out with his much taller teenage model son Dylan
          
          Looked as cool as dad
        








          The many faces of Kate! Duchess of Cambridge cuts an animated figure as she smiles, grimaces and glances her way through tour of Kensington
          









          Mama June meeting with 'Marriage Boot Camp' producers about appearing on reality show with ex-partner Sugar Bear
          
          They split recently 
        








          MC Dusk in the house! Actress Abbie Cornish hits the stage as her rapping alter ego supporting Nas on his Australian tour
          
          From acting to rapping
        








          It's Kick-me Kate! Duchess of Cambridge says baby number two won't stop moving (but she still doesn't know if it's a boy or girl) 
          
          Keeping it a surprise
        








          'Let's go Daddy!' Gisele Bundchen shares a cute snap of the kids cheering on their dad Tom Brady in team jerseys during football game
          









          'Well played!' Justin Bieber shows his sense of humor as he laughs at Saturday Night Live's spoof of his Calvin Klein ad 
          
          Took sketch in his stride
        








          Seth Rogen hits out at blockbuster American Sniper likening it to a 'Nazi propaganda film'
          
          The propaganda film in Quentin Tarantino's Inglorious Basterds
        








          He's electric! Man in the mirror Prince Charles is all smiles as he takes a spin in an eco-friendly car during factory visit
          
          At Nissan car factory 
        








          The legend that is Danny Devito!': Supermodel Cara Delevingne poses for a selfie with the bald Hollywood actor
          
          Posed with comic actor
        








          Jennifer Lopez dons two silvery frocks in NYC and reveals how she related to her cougar character in The Boy Next Door
          
          Called the role 'perfect'
        








          Future hero! Reese Witherspoon takes her son, Tennessee, to visit a Los Angeles fire truck
          
          The 38-year-old actress got an Oscar nomination last week
        








          'He will be missed beyond words': Crosby, Stills And Nash drummer Dallas Taylor dies aged 66
          
          Wife Patti McGovern-Taylor broke the news 
        








          A wheely strong Bond! Pierce Brosnan and wife Keely Shaye Smith enjoy a romantic spin on their bikes in Malibu
          
          Said sight of his wife still makes him 'go weak'
        








          Mommy and me got style! Giuliana Rancic and son Edward play it cool in black hats at the LA Farmers Market
          
          40-year-old was spotted with cute two-year-old
        








          Demi Moore bonds with daughter Tallulah Willis by giving her shaved head a buzz-cut
          
          Mom famously shaved off her waist-length locks in G.I. Jane back in 1997
        








          'You Are Sunshine': Teresa Palmer sends heart-warming message to mother to mark her 60th birthday
          
          She's been busy filming the The Ever After 
        








          Move over, Crawleys! Ralph Lauren and his family look every inch the aristocrats as they spend an evening at famed Downton Abbey castle
          





















 
 
DON'T MISS







          'Sometimes miracles come in pairs': Virgin billionaire Richard Branson's daughter Holly Branson shares sweet picture of her twin babies
          









          'You're right up my street': Katie Price reduces unlikely ally Hopkins to happy tears as they bond in the UK Celebrity Big Brother house 
          









          Man Vs. Wild! Top Gear stars attempt to round up 4,000 cows as Jeremy Clarkson admits they 'genuinely loved' filming in Australia's Northern Territory
          









          Beyoncé continues to fuel pregnancy rumors as she hides her tummy while enjoying sushi lunch with Jay Z and daughter Blue Ivy
          
          She's keeping quiet
        








          Johnny Depp is reunited with the cocaine dealer he played in Blow following his release from 20 years in prison
          
          Actor met George Jung
        








          'I think the risk is worse than the reward': Former Chicago Bears coach Mike Ditka says he wouldn't want his son to play football today
          
          Coached until 1992
        








          Smile! Russell Crowe takes selfies with fans on the red carpet at The Water Diviner premiere in Seoul
          
          First time visiting the South Korean capital 
        








          Poppy Delevingne shows off her style credentials in chic cape coat and flirty black dress as she hits Milan for Men's Fashion Week with husband James 
          









          'I didn't get the memo!' Taylor Swift stands out in white dress among model pals Gigi Hadid and Karlie Kloss who ravish in black 
          
          Famous friendships
        








          James Blunt reignites 'too posh' row with British Labour party... accusing MP of provoking class war instead of helping the poor
          









          Once Upon A Time star Jennifer Morrison shows off her natural beauty as she steps out for dinner completely make-up free
          
          In West Hollywood
        








          Mark Wahlberg's childhood friend shot dead by police moments before officers found his mother stabbed to death on the front steps of their house
          









          One way to attract viewers! Christina Milian narrowly avoids wardrobe malfunction in provocative zip-up dress... as she promotes new show
          









          'Skiing with my love!' Kim Kardashian gets romantic with Kanye West taking a selfie on the slopes... as she manages to show off her figure 
          









          Newly-unearthed video reveals a young Beyoncé in the early days of Destiny's Child... and she's barely aged at all
          
          Was just a teenager
        








          Taking some inspiration from One Direction's Zayn Malik? 5 Seconds Of Summer's Ashton Irwin shaves off his 'holiday beard' and it trends worldwide
          









          Courteney Cox looks laid-back in a striped sweater and jeans as she takes 10-year-old daughter Coco on a shopping trip
          
          Chilled out style
        








          'So far it's only sex and cocaine': Whitney Houston fans take to Twitter to criticize graphic scenes in Lifetime TV movie
          
          Rather risque scenes
        








          Newly engaged Sofia Vergara works off-duty chic in semi-sheer top and skinny jeans after meditation session with hunky fiancé Joe Manganiello
          









          Bleach it like Beckham! Brooklyn takes style tips from father David as he shows off his new platinum blond 'do on Instagram
          
          Just like his dad
        








          Not exactly born with it! Kylie Jenner shows off longer raven locks while out to lunch with a friend in Calabasas
          
          She is the hair extensions guru 
        








          Work and play! Lovebirds Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys have fun chatting about their show The Americans at the TCAs
          
          Star as married couple
        








          Ladies night! Emmy Rossum looks demure in navy blue alongside leather-clad Kelly Rutherford at fashion event 
          
          Cut a stylish figure 
        








          Bachelorette no more! Desiree Hartsock marries fiance Chris Siegfried during romantic wedding ceremony 
          
          Starred in hit ABC show
        








          Nothing to hide! Amber Rose shows off her curves in yet another bikini... then posts a VERY racy topless picture in the shower
          
          Sauntered poolside
        








          Keeping up with the Crawleys? Prince Harry's ex-girlfriend Cressida Bonas 'in talks to join Downton Abbey cast' 
          
          A budding actress
        








          Playboy model who became a teacher in Austria faces the sack after missing the first day of school because she was injured filming new reality show 
          









          'We exchanged numbers': 1975 rocker Matt Healy confirms he and Taylor Swift 'spoke occasionally' but denies a romance
          
          Subject of speculation 
        








          Miss Lebanon claims Israeli beauty queen 'jumped in' and photobombed her at Miss Universe contest as she faces calls to be stripped of title
          









          One hot mama! Eva Mendes shows off her figure on date night with Ryan Gosling for the first time since welcoming Esmerelda
          
          Gave birth in September
        








          Sorry Cara Delevingne, Amanda Holden is the new queen of the bushy brow thanks to special $60-a-month treatment
          
          Britain's Got Talent judge has a new look 
        








          Liberace is going back on tour - as an 'interactive hologram'
          
          Legend will be projected on stage hologram for the first time in Las Vegas 
        








          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Did Georgia May Jagger get a little carried away on the London Underground?
          
          Racy rumors of passion
        








          Getting by with a little help from her friends! Australian supermodel Cheyenne Tozzi enjoys a night out with pals following cryptic 'heart broken' posts
          









          Simply chic! Olivia Munn looks effortlessly stylish in cropped leather jacket as she carries her pooch Chance around NYC
          
          One classy chick
        








          She's still Jenny From The Block! Jennifer Lopez displays her chiseled abs in tiny top and casual pants while out in Beverly Hills
          
          Favorite sweat pants
        








          'I made a huge, huge mistake that will haunt me to my grave': 'Hanoi' Jane Fonda speaks out as Vietnam vets protest her Maryland event 43 years later
          









          'It was one of those awkward moments you will NEVER forget': Irish pop star Ronan Keating reveals he accidentally headbutted Pope Benedict XVI
          









          Simon Cowell takes a sneak peek under British comedian David Walliams' kilt as they lark around ahead of first round of BGT auditions in Edinburgh
          









          Ever-youthful Jane Fonda, 77, is sophisticated chic in cream tweed jacket and pearls as she appears on Italian show 
          
          Looking stylish in Milan
        








          Contestant Chloe Goodman admits housemates threatened to stage mass walkout of British Celebrity Big Brother house over Perez Hilton's behavior
          









          'She tries so hard to start drama': CBB's Perez Hilton calls out Katie Hopkins as he claims she is jealous of him on British show
          
          Center of many disputes 
        








          Is this the end of Downton Abbey? Creator Julian Fellowes to move to New York to work on new period drama The Gilded Age
          
          Say it ain't so!
        








          High Roller! Jane Seymour, 63, displays her youthful energy in pink floral dress as boards the ferris wheel in Las Vegas
          
          Ageless beauty
        








          Fashionable flyer! LeAnn Rimes puts her toned legs on display in grey skirt and black boots as she jets into LAX with husband Eddie Cibrian
          









          'There is nothing I can do to prevent it': Sharon Osbourne fears she will die of Alzheimer's like her father... after DNA test reveals the star is at risk of the disease
          









          Distracting from the game! Rose Byrne and Bobby Cannavale share a PDA in the stands at day one of the Australian Open
          
          Couple caught the tennis
        








          A bright year ahead! Lily Allen showcases her new electric purple and orange locks as she rocks a biker chick look for Hollywood dinner date
          









          Comedienne Tig Notaro and girlfriend Stephanie Allynne engaged after dating over a year 
          
          Grammy-nominated comic proposed 
        








          Casually glamorous: Victoria Justice dazzles as she flaunts her enviably slim figure in  skinny jeans and a black jumper
          
          Actress looked sleek
        








          Singer James Blunt brands British politician a 'prejudiced wazzock' for complaining about posh 'dominance' of music and films
          
          MP Chris Bryant fell foul
        








          Miranda Kerr looks flawless as she models teaware collection... and tells FEMAIL  daily workouts, chia seed muffins and sunsets make her happy
          









          Two Shades Of Grey! Charlie Hunnam shows off his dapper side in different stylish suits at Calvin Klein show
          
          Backed out of starring in 50 Shades Of Grey
        








          Zendaya reveals her slender frame in skinny jeans as she parties with Elizabeth Berkley at launch of new TV show KC Undercover
          
          New Disney TV show 
        








          Walk on the wild side! The Hills star Stephanie Pratt bundles up in animal print coat and skintight leather trousers for dinner
          
          Back home in LA
        








          A day out from Downton! Abbey stars Joanne Froggatt, Lesley Nicol and Laura Carmichael enjoy the royal treatment at event in LA
          









          Diva in denim! Lana Del Rey dresses down in faded jeans for cosy motorcycle ride with boyfriend Francesco Carrozzini
          
          First linked back in June
        








          A wild night! Emma Stone and Alan Cumming enjoy time off from Cabaret to pose with a fake leopard at another show 
          
          Saw Queen Of The Night
        








          Bill Cosby given a standing ovation by audience in California amid 'sexual assault' scandal 
          
          First California gig since sex claims
        








          Shamelessly sophisticated: Emmy Rossum looks effortlessly chic as she steps out for dinner in tuxedo jacket and leather trousers
          









          Mad Men star Kiernan Shipka works a casual look in a grey sweater and dark wash jeans while out in Los Angeles
          
          Young fashionista still looked sophisticated 
        








          Emma Roberts and fiance Evan Peters coordinate in matching grunge styles as they furniture shop in West Hollywood
          
          Building their home
        








          'Brace yourselves for the worst': Whitney Houston's family slam new Lifetime TV biopic for tarnishing the singer's legacy
          
          They're not happy
        








          Just in time for Valentine's Day! Rosie Huntington-Whiteley shows off her stunning figure in seductive lingerie range for M&S
          
          Models it all herself
        








          Kim Sears shows off her $300,000 engagement ring as she cheers fiance Andy Murray to victory at Australian Open
          
          In Melbourne today
        








          Just the two of us! Michelle Monaghan rocks ripped jeans and a classy blazer during cuddly lunch date with husband Peter White
          
          Romantic lunch 
        








          Going strong! Sharon Stone arrives at LAX with beau David DeLuise as the new couple return from quick getaway
          
          New romantic interest 
        








          'I have grown so much': Terrence Howard comments on past assault allegations during panel for new hit TV show Empire
          
          Addressed the claims
        








          Amy Adams opts for low-key look as she steps out in bootcut jeans and baggy cardigan after disappointing Oscars snub
          









          Singer Akon hit with $36K lawsuit by contractor for unpaid home renovations on his Georgia mansion
          
          They involved elaborate floor plans
        








          He's just a big softie! Chris Hemsworth says he doesn't channel Thor at home with his kids as he bares bulging biceps in tight white T-shirt for GQ magazine
          









          'I can cry watching a kid doing choreography': Sia talks about controversial Elastic Heart music video which stars Maddie Ziegler, 12, and actor Shia LaBeouf
          









          'He's getting bigger!' Hilaria Baldwin poses in her underwear to display her new bump... and toned posterior
          
          Announced second pregnancy at New Year
        








          Mike Huckabee defends his book that slams 'pimp' Jay-Z and 'X-rated trash' Beyonce as he insists 'you have to read the whole chapter to understand'
          









          'Your spirit will live on': Hip-hop mourns as founding member of musical powerhouse A$AP Mob Steven Rodriguez found dead at just 26
          









          Spicing up your wardrobe? Busy Philipps indulges in some retail fun at Agent Provocateur lingerie shop in LA
          
          Mood for a splurge
        








          'They missed each other': Ansel Elgort and on-again girlfriend Violetta Komyshan show their unity at airport after brief split
          
          Single days are over?
        








          'If you live by the sword you should die by the sword': Katie Hopkins comes down hard on Perez Hilton
          
          Both featuring on British reality show
        








          Nod to the '90s! Gwen Stefani downplays her flashy style in denim overalls as she heads to the dance studio
          
          Singer has a unique sense of style
        








          New fix! Eddie Murphy changes up his coffee run ritual by taking girlfriend Paige Butcher her to Starbucks instead of usual Coffee Bean & Leaf
          









          'Getting ready to conquer the world!' Christina Aguilera shares first picture of her 'lil diva' Summer Rain
          
          Five months old
        








          Looking loved up! Model Jessica Hart slips on a pair of heart shaped sunglasses as she farewells Miami
          
          More than happy to strike a pose
        








          Grown Ups actor Nadji Jeter, 18, spends night in jail after arrest for investigation of driving under influence of marijuana
          
          Arrested in California
        








          Time for unwinding! Amy Adams covers up in cosy beige wrap for solo lunch amid hectic awards season schedule 
          
          Big Eyes star 
        








          She nailed it! Dakota Fanning keeps it casual in ripped skinny jeans as she steps out to get a manicure
          
          Showed off her natural beauty
        








          Why motherhood's been the making of Sienna: Actress says she is much happier that her life now revolves around her daughter and fiance
          









          'You're disgusting!': Perez Hilton faces vicious backlash on UK reality show after taking the blame for Alexander O'Neal's departure
          









          Elizabeth Olsen nails off-duty chic in semi-sheer sweater and straw hat while strolling through the Farmers Market 
          
          Has famous twin sisters
        








          Purple reign! Naomi Watts wears grape-colored asymetrical gown and adds customary bright yellow sash as she collects award in Macau
          









          That looks better! Farrah Abraham shows off a healthy pink pout as she poses days after her trout pout disaster
          
          Recovered after botched lip injection
        








          Making a splash! Sports Illustrated stunner Jessica Gomes is seen for first time with boyfriend Rocky Elsom as they hold hands in the surf 
          









          'We resolved our differences in bed': Geoffrey Edelsten, 71, reignites romance with 'volatile' fiancée Gabi Grecko, 25, celebrating with night of passion
          









          Former heartthrob Johnny Depp looks portly and unkempt as he jokes around with bemused Mortdecai co-star Paul Bettany at Berlin premiere  
          









          Oprah and the stars of Selma march with hundreds in Alabama to honor Martin Luther King
          
          Marched from Selma City Hall to Edmund Pettus Bridge
        








          Daddy's little stuntman! Johnny Knoxville watches son Rocko rappel down a rock wall during family outing 
          
          Inherited his father's audaciousness
        








          Foo Fighter's Dave Grohl turns a Chilean crowd's enthusiastic chant into a new song
          
          Took crowd participation to the next level in a concert in Chile
        








          Well, Kris can't say no anymore! Bruce Jenner and son Brandon check out some VERY expensive wheels at LA car show
          
          Dealing with rumors
        








          'It's my fifth marriage... and my last!' Dame Joan Collins gushes about 'soulmate' husband Percy Gibson who is 32 years her junior
          
          Married 13 years
        








          So is it back on? Brandi Glanville and ex boyfriend Jonathan Ruiz hold hands with her son Mason on family outing
          
          Split in 2013 because she 'just wasn't into him'
        








          Still playing the field? Adrian Grenier kisses a mystery brunette on the cheek during coffee break in LA
          
          Usually seen with beautiful women
        








          My life with SEVEN different husbands in 42 years: Angela's tip for a happy marriage (to the same man)? Just accept your other half is always changing
          









          Been at the Go Go Juice? Honey Boo Boo leaps into the air in delight ahead of family's move into spacious new home
          
          New four-bed home
        








          'Maybe you need a little bit more work?' Nicole Kidman ribs overweight Aussie radio host suggesting he take a 'spin class' after host asks: 'Do I look athletic?'
          









          'Thanking God!' Pregnant Teen Mom star Maci Bookout and son Bentley unharmed after their Jeep rolls over three times in terrifying freeway smash
          









          American Sniper sets new records as it takes $90.2m in opening weekend to top the U.S. box office
          
          Clint Eastwood war movie broke records 
        








          Hoping Kourtney's watching? Scott Disick ensures he's photographed drinking water in Vegas... days after 'trashing' hotel room
          









          Iggy Azalea and Nick Young smile happily on their first date since the basketball star was spotted taking two other girls home
          
          Still together
        








          Andrew hires top lawyer to fight under-age sex claims as as he prepares to make first public appearance
          
          Enlisted help of top defence barristers in UK
        








          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Charles makes a spectacle of himself - in a monocle: Prince said to be trying eyewear because of his dislike of glasses
          









          Hello, captain! A bearded Liam Hemsworth steps out in LA days after celebrating his 25th birthday wearing a naval-inspired cap 
          









          SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Pippa's new party piece? She's a prize wine expert: Duchess of Cambridge's sister set to receive award in Britain
          









          Newly-single Kate Hudson is easy breezy with wet hair and denim hotpants as she hangs out with male companion
          
          Returning from the gym
        








          She can't say away! Princess Stephanie of Monaco spends her third day at the International Circus Festival of Monte-Carlo
          
          Prince Albert's sister
        








          'They throw each other in the pool!' Ryan Seacrest on the audition tape that won the Kardashians their first reality show
          
          Launched their careers
        








          'She's going to be a great mom!' New Girl's Jake Johnson reveals his thoughts on Zooey Deschanel's pregnancy
          
          Co-star excited for Zooey to be a mother
        








          Lena Dunham apologizes for comparing Bill Cosby rape accusations to the holocaust in magazine interview
          
          Caused outrage
        








          Fergie smiles lovingly as Josh Duhamel carries son Axl on his shoulders on family trip to the park
          
          Singer and actor have married since 2009
        








          Red hot! Jennifer Lopez positively glows in vibrant satin skirt as she flashes a glimpse of her tummy at Q&A for American Idol
          
          Never a dull moment
        








          Elizabeth Hurley wears lace dress to dine out with mystery man in Los Angeles... as The Royals is renewed for second season
          
          Star is currently single
        








          'She's one of the nicest people I've ever met': Sofia Vergara gets the seal of approval from Joe Manganiello's thrilled mother
          
          Won her over
        








          Johnny Depp covers up in checked scarf and baggy clothing at Mortdecai photocall in Berlin as he sports slightly fuller figure
          
          Promoting new film
        








          Turning a new Page? Actress Ellen shows off her reading material as she hits the gym in hoodie and beanie hat
          
          Reading The First Bad Man, written by a friend
        










 
 
Today's headlines


 
 
Most Read









Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations on luxury yacht with former DC mayor Adrian Fenty





Technology tycoon, wife and their four grandchildren confirmed dead in 'suspicious' fire at $9million...





How much coffee do you drink and how often do you read? The simple questions that form part of new 20 minute...





AirAsia jet QZ8501 'climbed at abnormal speed and then stalled' before it crashed, reveals Indonesian...





New Ebola scare in US: Health worker returning from Seirra Leone pulled off United flight at Newark after...





Billy Crystal says there is too much of ALL sex on TV after storm over comments saying gay scenes had gone...





EXCLUSIVE PICTURE: The bully shamed by author who tracked him down 40 years after torment that ruined his...





Agonized parents of Etan Patz must face son's accused killer in court after spending decades pursuing a...





No check-in desk, a room key vending machine and free drinks at happy hour: Sir Richard Branson launches...





Is this alien communication? Mystery cosmic burst captured LIVE - and we could be closer to understanding...





How doctors keep young: Their biggest secret? They will do anything to steer clear of other doctors! Learn...





How teenager who became poster girl for racial intolerance in 1957 eventually became friends with her black...





The American Sniper is a hero not a coward - he did his job and his job was to kill people





'Thank you for being willing to watch the hard stuff': American Sniper’s widow pays tribute to audiences as...





Seth Rogen hits out at blockbuster American Sniper likening it to a 'Nazi propaganda film'





Revealed: How Bradley Cooper consumed 8,000 calories a day and ate every 55 minutes to gain 40lbs for...





'I want to be 100% plastic': Human Ken doll risks blindness to have veins in his forehead removed 





Passengers evacuated from TWO Delta Air Lines planes at New York's JFK airport as authorities investigated...





One construction worker killed and a driver injured after overpass collapses in Ohio





Vanderbilt rape trial jury watches video sent of alleged crime which 'shows one player giggling and egging...





Baby boy dies after brother, five, accidentally shoots him in the head with a revolver at family home





The self-proclaimed 'military consultant' who headed to war zones after his wife died of cancer and a...





New York City mayor Bill de Blasio lays a wreath at the kosher grocery store as he pays tribute to victims...





Al Qaeda's YouTube guide for jihadists: Security chiefs spooked over terror video that proves extremists are...





ISIS fighters killed in first confirmed ground battle with Western forces after attacking Canadian special...





Five Chechens suspected of planning terror attack are arrested in France a day after 800,000 Muslims marched...





ISIS police sentence musicians to 90 lashes because they were playing an 'un-Islamic' electronic keyboard





A school bully, 'a wannabe badass' and a violent thug who had no interest in Islam: Ex-girlfriends reveal...





Parents of US journalist missing in Syria for three years make desperate plea to government to bring former...





MORE HEADLINES







 
            'I made a huge, huge mistake that will haunt me to my grave': 'Hanoi' Jane Fonda speaks out as Vietnam vets protest her Maryland event 43 years later
            



 
            Technology tycoon and his family unaccounted for as his $9million mansion on Annapolis waterfront is destroyed by enormous fire
            



 
            'Our lives aren't like Homeland or Argo!' Instagram's Rich Kids of Tehran claim to show off their £250,000 cars, £10m homes and opulent lifestyles... but are they fake?
            



 
            'I don't know why you're out for blood... I'm not paying': Mothers' Facebook battle after schoolboy is handed £15.95 invoice for missing classmate's birthday party 
            



 
            Tiger Woods' missing tooth was KNOCKED OUT by camera during media scramble after girlfriend Lindsey Vonn's record-breaking win
            



 
            Step-mother screams her innocence before being beheaded for murdering and sexually abusing six-year-old daughter in leaked footage that has outraged Saudi Arabia 
            



 
            The world's deadliest sniper: As a gripping film of his life is released, how one ruthless marksman claimed 255 victims - then died by the bullet himself
            



 
            Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations on luxury yacht with former DC mayor Adrian Fenty
            



 
            Seth Rogen hits out at blockbuster American Sniper likening it to a 'Nazi propaganda film'
            



 
            Pictured in mangled wreckage that saved his life: Man who SURVIVED being crushed between two big rigs in icy freeway crash and walked away without a scratch
            



 
            Co-founder of pioneering social network Plaxo charged with murdering his ex-wife's new husband 'in front of her and three of their children just two months after the wedding'
            



 
            College basketball star, 21, found dead in her dorm room after 'she choked on GUM in her sleep'
            



 
            ISIS execute 13 football fans by firing squad for watching Iraq play Jordan on TV in Islamist-controlled Mosul
            



 
            Gun-enthusiast, his dietitian wife and their five-year-old daughter lay dead from murder-suicide in their suburban home for WEEKS before neighbors discovered them
            



 
            Tom Brady laughs off 'cheating' accusations: Quarterback refuses to comment on claims the Patriots secretly deflated balls in 45-7 thrashing of Colts 
            



 
            Gun-toting Christian mother-of-three who made 'liberal heads explode' admits cheating on her military vet husband with Tea Party member
            



 
            Wife calls police on NFL super-agent husband after he 'abused her' in their Miami home following playoffs
            



 
            Billy Crystal says graphic gay sex on TV has gone 'too far' and that the industry mustn't 'shove it in our face' 
            



 
            Bodybuilding model 'was trying to outrun oncoming train' during filming for sports commercial when he was struck and killed
            



 
            He's a real Family Guy! Man who looks and sounds exactly like Peter Griffin becomes internet sensation
            



 
            The American Sniper is a hero not a coward - he did his job and his job was to kill people
            



 
            How teenager who became poster girl for racial intolerance in 1957 eventually became friends with her black classmate... only for them to fall out again years later 
            



 
            Johnny Depp is reunited with the cocaine dealer he played in Blow following his release from 20 years in prison
            



 
            Technology tycoon, wife and their four grandchildren confirmed dead in 'suspicious' fire at $9million Annapolis waterfront mansion - as police probe ruins for the hallmarks of arson
            



 
            The Army Ranger sniper who earned the nickname 'The Reaper' for killing more than 30 insurgents in four months with his rifle 'Dirty Diana'
            



 
            Teen from 'Bonnie and Clyde' duo appears in court day after he and girlfriend, 13, were caught after 'six-state crime spree' - and agrees to be extradited back to Kentucky
            



 
            ISIS cell members caught beheading animals as they practised how to decapitate people for an attack in Israel
            



 
            'They are cowards not heroes': Michael Moore slams 'military assassins' as Oscar-tipped movie American Sniper storms box office
            



 
            Terrifying footage shows man kicking down apartment door wielding a machete just moments before he is shot by the homeowner
            


MOST READ IN DETAIL





















From the Makers of Candy Crush
Farm Heroes Saga, the #4 Game on iTunes. Play it now!



more
































Next story



      Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell moves on as she vacations on luxury yacht with former DC mayor Adrian Fenty
    







194 comments
    






1 video
    










	SHARE PICTURE
      














Copy link to paste in your message





















Find out more...






Find out more...



























 
 
Back to top






Home




U.K.




News




Sports




U.S. Showbiz




Australia




Femail




Health




Science




Money




Video




Travel




Columnists







Sitemap
Archive
Video Archive
Mobile Apps
RSS
Text-based site
Reader Prints
Our Papers
Top of page

Daily Mail
Mail on	Sunday
This is Network
Evening Standard
This is Money

Metro
Jobsite
Mail Travel
Zoopla.co.uk
Prime Location


Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
© Associated Newspapers Ltd
Contact us
Advertise with us
US Careers at DailyMail.com
Terms
Privacy policy & cookies













 




 











 
 

















