Terror In Paris Sparks Protests Across World 
Terror In Paris Sparks Protests Across World



We use cookies to give you the best experience. If you do nothing we'll assume that it's ok.


					Close
				












Switch to US Edition







Clear search

Search





Home
UK
World
US
Business
Politics
Technology
Entertainment
Strange News
Weather

More
				









Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live






Watch Live


Menu









Clear search

Search








Sky News on Twitter





Sky News on Facebook





Sky News on Google+



Watch Live


Switch to US Edition










Terror In Paris Sparks Protests Across World

Thousands gather in Paris and London with many more protests planned across the globe to show support for freedom of speech.


20:30, UK, 
Wednesday 07
January 2015











More than 5,000 people have gathered in Place de la République










Share on Twitter





Share on Facebook





Share on Google+





Share on Whatsapp





Share by email






Protests are being organised around the world following the Paris terror attack that left ten journalists and two police officers dead.

Social media users quickly responded to the attack on the offices of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo with the hashtag #jesuischarlie in an outpouring of solidarity with the victims and freedom of speech.




Twitter users have changed their avatars in support with the victims

More than 5,000 people have gathered at Place de la République, a large square in the centre of the French capital, with many bearing the phrase - which translates as "I am Charlie" in English.
Others used slogans such as "press freedom has no price" and "Charb mort libre" (Charb died free), a reference to the magazine's editor Stephane Charbonnier, one of four cartoonists killed by the terrorists.

1/10










Gallery: Vigils Held For Charlie Hebdo Victims
Vigils have been held across the world in support of the victims of the Paris terror attack








































Sky's Joey Jones, in the square, said the mood is "incredibly sombre" as people flood in.
"It's the mood of a memorial or a wake really. Lots of people do have that sticker on their breast pocket or their arm of 'Je Suis Charlie'," he said.
"Among those people I have spoken to, there is anxiety as to what this might provoke in the coming hours and days in terms of a backlash.
"A lot of people have been saying they are anxious about a backlash towards Muslims or indeed other immigrant groups.

1/14










Gallery: Faces Of French Terror Victims
Charlie Hebdo editor Stephane Charbonnier, 47, had received death threats in the past and was living under police protection. Known as Charb, He and his nine colleagues, along with the two policemen were killed at the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris




















































"So this is clearly an important moment for French society and the mood overwhelmingly is of reflection and profound anxiety."
At least 20,000 people also gathered in the French cities of Lyon and Toulouse.
"It's terrible these people were murdered. In future, no-one will be able to speak his mind. We have to demonstrate in our thousands," said one protester, Beatrice Cano, who was carrying the latest issue of Charlie Hebdo.
French newspaper Le Monde has compiled a map of planned protests across the globe.

1/9










Gallery: The Pencil Is Mightier Than The Gun
Cartoonists all over the world have been picking up their pencils to show their support for the murdered artists on Charlie Hebdo magazine. This was by Carlos Latuff, posted on @LatuffCartoons
latuffcartoons.wordpress.com





































Cities taking part include New York, Amsterdam, Berlin, Madrid, Rome and Moscow.
In London, around 2,000 people joined a silent vigil in Trafalgar Square, many holding pens and notebooks in the air to show their solidarity for the murdered journalists.
Dean Stoker, a 38-year-old architect, said: "I am just here out of solidarity. I was really sickened by what I saw today. It is an incredibly important thing, freedom of the press and tolerance of others."
On social media, @LibyaLiberty tweeted: "As a Muslim, I absolutely refuse to apologise for this terrorist act. But as a Muslim, I demand justice for the victims& say: #JeSuisCharlie".

1/28










Gallery: Gunmen Attack Paris Magazine Office
Armed gunmen face police officers near the offices of the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris






























































































Guy Verhofstadt, the President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, tweeted: "A tragic day for the freedom of speech #jesuischarlie."
The Twitter account for the US Embassy in France also changed its avatar picture. It has tweeted there are no plans to close the embassy in Paris or other diplomatic facilities in France, despite misleading reports.





Promoted Stories



From Sky News



Recommended by Outbrain
Recommended by Outbrain




By posting a comment you are agreeing to abide by our Terms & Conditions. See our House Rules and FAQs.









Top Stories








Ex-MI6 Boss Warns West Not To Insult Islam









IS Demands $200m Ransom For Japan Hostages









Russians Held Over Alleged French Attack Plot









New Warning For Motorists As Snow Forecast









Nurse Poisoned Hospital Patients, Jurors Told












About Sky News


About Us
Sky News International
Sky News Library Sales
Site Map
Editorial Guidelines
Supreme Court Live




Sky News Services


Sky News for iPad
Sky News RSS
Sky News for Smartphones
Sky News Radio




Sky Channels


Sky 1
Sky Living
Sky Atlantic
Sky Arts
Sky Movies
Sky 3D
Sky Sports




More Sky Sites


NOW TV
Sky Academy
Bigger Picture
Sky Ride
Sky Corporate
Sky Bet
Sky.com
Sky News Arabia
Advertise With Us






Terms & Conditions
Privacy & Cookies Notice
Accessibility Information
Contact Us

 © 2015 BSkyB









