Charlie Hebdo Massacre Survivors Recount Gun Attack on Offices - NBC News
Charlie Hebdo Massacre Survivors Recount Gun Attack on Offices - NBC News










menu






                                    Sections
News
Investigations
Politics
Health
Tech
Science
Pop Culture
Business
Latino
Asian America





                                    TV
Nightly News
Meet the Press
Dateline
TODAY







                                    Top storylines
Iraq Turmoil
West Bank Kidnappings
Ukraine Crisis





                                    Featured
30 seconds to know
Art of the Startup
Show Me
Nerdwatch
First Read
Flashback





                                    Multimedia
Video
Photo







                                    Top Stories
A Look Back at Obama's State of The Unions
Patriots' Wilfork Pulls Woman From Overturned SUV After Win
NYC Settles Lawsuit Over Police Chokehold for $75,000
FULL EPISODE: Deadly Betrayal







                                    More from NBC
Local News
Weather
Sports
CNBC
MSNBC.COM
NBC.COM
Breaking News
In Plain Sight
NBC Learn
RE/CODE
Peacock Productions
Next Step for Vets
Parent Toolkit







nbcnews


home
latest

                search




















BERTRAND GUAY / AFP - Getty Images



                                        This Video Player Requires JavaScript

                                        It has come to our attention that the browser you are using is either not running
                                        javascript or out of date. Please enable javascript and/or update your browser if
                                        possible.




                            11 days
                            



Paris Magazine Attack
63 of 189  
French reporter Laurent Leger (R) and French cartoonist Catherine Meurisse (C) arrive to attend a meeting gathering editorial staff of French satirical weekly newspaper Charlie Hebdo and Liberation, on January 9, 2015 in Paris, after a deadly attack that occurred on Jan. 7.
 


Charlie Hebdo Massacre Survivors Recount Gun Attack on Offices



















By Alastair Jamieson

Survivors of the Charlie Hebdo massacre have recounted the horrifying moment when gunmen entered their offices, shouting "God is greatest" in Arabic and killing journalists at close range.One was told by attackers that she had escaped with her life because she was a woman, while another crouched under a table as attackers fired into the crowded room."It was unreal," Charlie Hebdo's senior reporter Laurent Leger said in an interview with radio station France Info.Two gunmen wearing combat gear and masks and carrying machine guns attacked the Paris-based satirical magazine's offices on Wednesday as staff and contributors gathered for their weekly editorial meeting. The publication had previous ran cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad.
















Sigolène Vinson, a freelance journalist, said she crawled along the floor to hide but one of the gunmen spotted her and grabbed her by the arm, pointing his gun at her head.However, he calmly told her she would not be killed because she was a woman, she told the New York Times. "Don't be afraid, calm down, I won't kill you," he said, according to her account.She told the newspaper that the gunman turned to his partner, who was still shooting, and shouted: "We don't shoot women! We don't shoot women!"Leger said that when workers first heard gunfire they thought they were firecrackers."Then we heard footsteps," he told France Info. "The door opened a guy burst in screaming 'Allahu Akbar!' ["God is greatest"]… he looked like a member of [special forces] … he was wearing a balaclava, dressed all in black, holding a weapon with both hands."BERTRAND GUAY / AFP - Getty ImagesReporter Laurent Leger (right) survived Wednesday's Charlie Hebdo massacre. The gunman asked for Charb — the pen name of Charlie Hebdo chief editor Stephane Charbonnier."Then there was firing, the smell of gunpowder … a few seconds, everyone is on the floor … they fired into the crowd."He added: "By chance, I was able to throw myself under a table. All of a sudden there was silence. When we finally got up, there were a few survivors. We rushed towards the injured. We couldn't understand what had happened. All this in Paris, in a newspaper."
First published January 9 2015, 9:17 AM



 

 

 

 




Alastair Jamieson


 

 

 

 

 


                                            Alastair Jamieson is a London-based reporter, editor and homepage producer for NBC News. He joined NBCNews.com in 2011 after more than a decade working as a reporter and news editor for British newspapers including The Sunday Telegraph and Daily Telegraph in London and The Scotsman in Edinburgh.
                                        
... Expand Bio












About Us


Careers


Contact


Privacy Policy – UPDATED


Terms of Service


Site Map


Advertise


Ad Choices


Outlook.com



					©2014 NBCNews.com
				

















 

