Instagram BlogInstagram Blog



Instagram

Get the free app for iOS, Android, or Windows


Welcome to the Instagram blog! See how Instagrammers are capturing and sharing the world's moments through photo and video features, user spotlights, tips and news from Instagram HQ.





1 week ago
671 notes

Photoset
photography, illustration, drawing, jesuischarlie, news, cartoon, Art, paris, france, london, User Feature, Instagram, 






























#jesuischarlie: An Illustrator’s Response by @lucille_clerc
To see the responses from artists and illustrators worldwide to events in France, browse the #charliehebdo, #jesuischarlie and #voyageavecmoi hashtags. To view more of Lucille’s work follow @lucille_clerc on Instagram.
“It’s a small way to contribute, to make a drawing,” says Lucille Clerc (@lucille_clerc), a French illustrator and printmaker based in London, whose hand-drawn image in response to the Charlie Hebdo attack in Paris resonated with people worldwide. “It’s a little drop in the end, but if it inspires and encourages people to react in a positive way, then it’s good.”
Lucille started drawing as a child, and her work is inspired by architecture and places around her. She draws by hand, then scans her work before creating a screen print. Putting pen to paper was her reaction to the attacks on journalists and artists. “The risk is that you respond to violence with violence, and that would be such a terrible thing to do. The victims were good people and pacifists and I wanted to create something for people to respond to in a peaceful way,” Lucille says. “To express ourselves no matter what, that’s the best tribute we can give.”


671 notes
xoxochitl125 likes thistheartfulshoppe likes thisamandadantes likes thisaurore256 likes thisomomi19 likes thiserwin-sieyes-me likes thisjohanneswelwich likes thissaaridreams likes thismmatthew83 likes thislotusyen likes thismdlosangelesarmenta likes thisiamnursahin likes thisdlerzakho likes thislupitagonzalezposts likes thislollieschan likes thisvlada-lemberg likes thismahooya2002 likes thismommiibalmaceda likes thiszainalstuff likes thisthoughtfullyglitterypaper likes this67monde likes thisrk-fan likes thisan8ana likes thiszeva27 likes thisletsliveinwonderlandforever likes thisraviee2 reblogged this from instagramraviee2 likes thisbat-songul likes thisgitayohana94 reblogged this from instagramtarkun likes thisoceanphoenix1 likes thisbuckysrun likes thisupstairzblog likes thisthe-curly-ginger likes thislee150122 reblogged this from instagrammd-troll likes thisromangurskij likes thisannabonilla1 likes thisamaricarmen likes thisfarkakar likes thisturcapoggi likes thiscgh-zdit429 reblogged this from instagramcaptainhosamza likes thismynameisjanlove likes thislerika1208 likes thisercansaatchi likes thisconitazuraida reblogged this from instagramcord likes thiskpturas likes thisaniapawlik likes thisShow more notesLoading...





Blog Archive
RSS Feed
Engineering Blog
Instameets


Facebook
Twitter


About Us
Support
API
Jobs
Privacy
Terms

© 2012 Instagram, Inc.



